                                                            Passed by both Houses




                               New South Wales




Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment
(Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill
2026
Contents
                                                                              Page

             1   Name of Act                                                     2
             2   Commencement                                                    2
Schedule 1       Amendment of Children (Criminal Proceedings) Act 1987 No 55     3
Schedule 2       Amendment of Crime Commission Act 2012 No 66                    4
Schedule 3       Amendment of Crimes Act 1900 No 40                             11
Schedule 4       Amendment of Crimes (Serious Crime Prevention Orders) Act 2016
                 No 15                                                          15
Schedule 5       Amendment of Law Enforcement (Powers and Responsibilities) Act
                 2002 No 103                                                    18
Schedule 6       Amendment of Criminal Procedure Act 1986 No 209                28
Schedule 7       Amendment of Road Transport Act 2013 No 18                     29
Schedule 8       Amendment of Roads Act 1993 No 33                              31
I certify that this public bill, which originated in the Legislative Assembly, has finally passed
the Legislative Council and the Legislative Assembly of New South Wales.


                                                Clerk of the Legislative Assembly.
                                                Legislative Assembly,
                                                Sydney,                                   , 2026




                                    New South Wales




Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment
(Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill
2026

Act No        , 2026



An Act to amend Acts administered by the Attorney General and the Minister for Police and
Counter-terrorism in relation to organised crime reforms.




I have examined this bill and find it to correspond in all respects with the bill as finally
passed by both Houses.


                                                Assistant Speaker of the Legislative Assembly.
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]




The Legislature of New South Wales enacts—
  1   Name of Act
             This Act is the Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised
             Crimes Reforms) Act 2026.
  2   Commencement
             This Act commences as follows—
             (a) for Schedules 5 and 6[1]—on a day or days to be appointed by proclamation,
             (b) otherwise—on the date of assent to this Act.




Page 2
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Children (Criminal Proceedings) Act 1987 No 55



Schedule 1             Amendment of Children (Criminal Proceedings)
                       Act 1987 No 55
[1]   Section 3 Definitions
      Omit section 3(1), definition of serious children’s indictable offence, paragraph (c).
      Insert instead—
                    (c)    an offence under the following sections of the Crimes Act 1900—
                            (i) section 48,
                           (ii) section 61J, other than in circumstances referred to in section
                                  61J(2)(d),
                          (iii) section 61K, or section 61B before the commencement of the
                                  Crimes (Amendment) Act 1989,
                          (iv) section 93G(1A),
                           (v) section 93GA,
                          (vi) section 196(1)(b) and (2)(b),




Page 3
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 2 Amendment of Crime Commission Act 2012 No 66



Schedule 2             Amendment of Crime Commission Act 2012 No 66
[1]   Section 4 Interpretation
      Insert in alphabetical order in section 4(1)—
                    organised crime offence has the same meaning as in the Law Enforcement
                    (Powers and Responsibilities) Act 2002, Part 5, Division 4B.
                    organised crime offence summons means a summons issued under section 24
                    that includes a requirement referred to in section 29A.
[2]   Section 25 Failure of witnesses to attend and answer questions etc
      Omit the penalty.
      Insert instead—
                    Maximum penalty—40 penalty units or imprisonment for 4 years, or both.
[3]   Section 27 False or misleading evidence
      Omit “not exceeding 500 penalty units or by imprisonment for a period not exceeding 5
      years” from section 27(2).
      Insert instead “of not more than 1,000 penalty units or imprisonment for not more than 10
      years”.
[4]   Section 28 Commission may require information from certain government agencies
      Omit section 28(4), penalty.
      Insert instead—
                    Maximum penalty—40 penalty units or imprisonment for 12 months, or both.
[5]   Section 29, heading
      Insert “generally” after “things”.
[6]   Section 29(9), penalty
      Omit the penalty.
      Insert instead—
                    Maximum penalty for subsection (9)—40 penalty units or imprisonment for
                    12 months, or both.
[7]   Sections 29A and 29B
      Insert after section 29—
      29A    Special power to obtain documents and other things—organised crime
             offence
             (1)   This section applies if—
                   (a) a summons is issued by an executive officer under section 24(1), and
                   (b) the summons is in connection with the investigation of an organised
                         crime offence, and
                   (c) the executive officer believes on reasonable grounds that delay in the
                         production of documents or other things referred to in the summons
                         may result in—




Page 4
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 2 Amendment of Crime Commission Act 2012 No 66



                           (i)    the concealment, destruction, modification or removal of the
                                  documents or other things, including the modification of the
                                  contents of an electronic device, or
                          (ii)    serious prejudice to the conduct of the investigation.
             (2)    The summons may include a requirement that the person on whom the
                    summons is served—
                    (a) immediately produce the documents or other things referred to in the
                         summons to the person serving the summons, and
                    (b) provide the person serving the summons with the information or
                         assistance, in relation to a computer, that is referred to in the Law
                         Enforcement (Powers and Responsibilities) Act 2002, section
                         76AM(1)–(2A).
             (3)    This section is repealed 2 years after it commences.
       29B   Refusal or failure to comply with organised crime offence summons
             (1)    A person on whom an organised crime offence summons is served must not,
                    without reasonable excuse—
                    (a) refuse or fail to produce a document or other thing the person was
                          required to immediately produce by the summons, or
                    (b) refuse or fail to provide information or assistance, in relation to a
                          computer, required by the person serving the summons.
                    Maximum penalty—40 penalty units or imprisonment for 4 years, or both.
             (2)    This section is repealed 2 years after it commences.
 [8]   Section 33 Applications to Supreme Court for review of Commission’s decisions
       concerning entitlement to refuse to take oath or affirmation, produce documents or
       things or answer questions
       Insert after section 33(1)(a)—
                     (a1) to do any of the following required under an organised crime offence
                            summons—
                             (i) produce a document or other thing,
                            (ii) provide information or assistance in relation to a computer, or
 [9]   Section 35 Time for commencing prosecutions
       Insert “or 29B(1)” after “section 25(2)”.
[10]   Section 37 Conditional release of witness
       Omit section 37(3), penalty.
       Insert instead—
                     Maximum penalty for subsection (3)—40 penalty units or imprisonment for 4
                     years, or both.
[11]   Section 39, heading
       Insert “generally” after “documents”.
[12]   Section 39AA
       Insert after section 39—




Page 5
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 2 Amendment of Crime Commission Act 2012 No 66


       39AA   Privilege for documents and other things in relation to organised crime offence
              summonses
              (1)   A person serving an organised crime offence summons must explain to the
                    person on whom the summons is served that—
                    (a) the person may object to immediately producing the documents or other
                          things referred to in the summons, and
                    (b) if the person objects to immediately producing the documents or other
                          things—
                           (i) the documents or other things are not admissible in evidence
                                 against the person in civil, criminal or disciplinary proceedings,
                                 and
                                  Note— see subsection (2)
                           (ii)   the person may apply to the Supreme Court for a review under
                                  section 33.
                    Note— If an objection under this subsection is made by the person on whom the
                    summons is served, the person is still required to produce the documents or other
                    things referred to in the summons. Failure to produce the documents or other things
                    may be dealt with as an offence under section 29B or contempt of the Commission
                    under section 47A.
              (2)   A document or other thing produced by a person in accordance with an
                    organised crime offence summons is not admissible in evidence against the
                    person in civil, criminal or disciplinary proceedings other than a proceeding
                    for—
                     (a) the falsity of the document or other thing given by the person, or
                    (b) a relevant order, unless the proceedings for the relevant order have
                          commenced or are imminent.
              (3)   Subsection (2) does not make a document or other thing inadmissible in civil,
                    criminal or disciplinary proceedings if the person served with the organised
                    crime offence summons—
                    (a) is an adult, and
                    (b) was given the explanation required by subsection (1), and
                    (c) did not object to immediately producing the documents or other things.
              (4)   If the person served with the organised crime offence summons is less than 18
                    years of age at the time the summons is served, the person is taken for the
                    purposes of this Act to have objected to immediately producing the documents
                    or other things referred to in the summons.
              (5)   This section is repealed 2 years after it commences.
              (6)   In this section—
                    relevant order has the same meaning as in section 39.
[13]    Section 45 Publication or disclosure of evidence
        Omit section 45(3), penalty.
        Insert instead—
                      Maximum penalty—200 penalty units or imprisonment for 4 years, or both.
[14]    Section 45(3A)
        Insert after section 45(3)—




Page 6
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 2 Amendment of Crime Commission Act 2012 No 66



            (3A)    The maximum fine specified in subsection (3) for an offence dealt with
                    summarily applies regardless of the Criminal Procedure Act 1986, section
                    268.
[15]   Section 45A Disclosure of evidence of accused about offence for which charged
       Omit section 45A(6), penalty.
       Insert instead—
                     Maximum penalty—200 penalty units or imprisonment for 4 years, or both.
[16]   Section 45A(6A)
       Insert after section 45A(6)—
            (6A)    The maximum fine specified in subsection (6) for an offence dealt with
                    summarily applies regardless of the Criminal Procedure Act 1986, section
                    268.
[17]   Section 47A Contempt of the Commission
       Insert after section 47A(1)(b)—
                    (b1) if served with an organised crime offence summons—
                             (i) refuses or fails to produce a document or other thing the person
                                 was required to immediately produce by the summons, or
                            (ii) refuses or fails to provide information or assistance, in relation to
                                 a computer, required by the person serving the summons, or
[18]   Section 47C Powers of Commissioner in relation to alleged contempt
       Omit section 47C(5).
       Insert instead—
              (5)   If the alleged contempt of the Commission is committed in the face or hearing
                    of the Commissioner, a summons need not be issued against the contemnor but
                    the Commissioner may direct that the contemnor—
                     (a) be immediately taken into custody in a correctional centre or elsewhere
                            by—
                             (i) a member of the NSW Police Force, or
                            (ii) an officer of the Commission authorised by the Commissioner,
                                  and
                           Note— A person in custody may be given into the keeping of a correctional
                           officer. See the Crimes (Administration of Sentences) Act 1999, section 250.
                    (b)    be called on to show cause why the contemnor should not be dealt with
                           under section 47B for the alleged contempt.
[19]   Section 47C(7)(b)
       Omit section 47C(7)(b) and (c).
       Insert instead—
                     (b)   for the contemnor to be detained in a correctional facility or elsewhere
                           until the contemnor is brought before the Supreme Court.
[20]   Section 47D Conditional release of contemnor
       Omit section 47D(5), penalty.
       Insert instead—


Page 7
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 2 Amendment of Crime Commission Act 2012 No 66



                     Maximum penalty—40 penalty units or imprisonment for 4 years, or both.
[21]   Section 47G Obstruction or disruption of Commission
       Omit the penalty.
       Insert instead—
                     Maximum penalty—200 penalty units or imprisonment for 4 years, or both.
[22]   Section 47G(2)
       Insert at the end of section 47G—
               (2)   The maximum fine specified in subsection (1) for an offence dealt with
                     summarily applies regardless of the Criminal Procedure Act 1986, section
                     268.
[23]   Section 81 Disclosures prejudicing investigations
       Omit section 81(1), penalty.
       Insert instead—
                     Maximum penalty—100 penalty units or imprisonment for 2 years, or both.
[24]   Section 85 Proceedings for offences
       Insert after section 85(1)—
              (1A)   Subsection (1) does not affect the capacity of a prosecutor to elect, under the
                     Criminal Procedure Act 1986, for a prosecution for an offence under section
                     25, 37(3), 45(3), 45A(6), 47D(5) or 47G(1) to be dealt with on indictment.
[25]   Sections 87 and 88
       Omit section 88.
       Insert instead—
         87    Monitoring by Law Enforcement Conduct Commission of organised crime
               offence summonses
               (1)   The Law Enforcement Conduct Commission must keep under scrutiny the
                     exercise of powers under this Act in relation to organised crime offence
                     summonses.
               (2)   For subsection (1), the Law Enforcement Conduct Commission may require
                     the Commissioner to provide information about the exercise of the powers.
               (3)   The Commissioner must ensure the Law Enforcement Conduct Commission
                     is provided with a report about—
                      (a) any organised crime offence summons served, and
                     (b) the reasons for serving the organised crime offence summons, and
                      (c) the powers used under organised crime offence summons.
               (4)   A report under subsection (3) must be provided within 3 months after the
                     organised crime offence summons to which the report relates ceases to have
                     effect.
               (5)   The Law Enforcement Conduct Commission must annually—
                     (a) prepare a report about the exercise of the powers referred to in
                          subsection (1), and
                     (b) give the report to—


Page 8
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 2 Amendment of Crime Commission Act 2012 No 66



                           (i)   the Minister, and
                          (ii)   the Attorney General.
              (6)   A report under subsection (5) must be tabled in each House of Parliament as
                    soon as practicable after the report is received by the Minister and the Attorney
                    General.
              (7)   The Law Enforcement Conduct Commission must also give a copy of a report
                    under subsection (5) to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the
                    Ombudsman, the Law Enforcement Conduct Commission and the Crime
                    Commission on the same day on which the report is given to the Minister and
                    the Attorney General.
              (8)   This section is repealed on the later of the following days—
                    (a) the day that is 2 years after the section commences,
                    (b) the day the second report under this section is tabled in each House of
                          Parliament.
         88   Annual reports to be given by Commissioner to Minister and Attorney General
              (1)   The Commissioner must report annually on the exercise of powers in relation
                    to organised crime offence summonses.
              (2)   Each report must be provided, within 4 months after 30 June in each year, to—
                    (a) the Minister, and
                    (b) the Attorney General.
              (3)   The Commissioner must also give a copy of a report under subsection (1) to
                    the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Ombudsman, the Law Enforcement
                    Conduct Commission and the Crime Commission on the same day on which
                    the report is given to the Minister and the Attorney General.
              (4)   The report under subsection (1) must specify the following matters in relation
                    to the relevant year ending on 30 June—
                     (a) the number of organised crime offence summonses that were issued,
                    (b) the number of documents or other things produced under organised
                           crime offence summonses,
                     (c) the number of objections made to—
                            (i) immediately produce a document or other thing under organised
                                 crime offence summonses, or
                           (ii) providing information or assistance in relation to a computer,
                    (d) the number of contempt proceedings in relation to refusal or failure to
                           comply with organised crime offence summonses,
                     (e) the breakdown by age of persons on whom organised crime offence
                           summonses were served,
                     (f) the breakdown by Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander status of persons
                           on whom organised crime offence summonses were served,
                    (g) other matters requested by the Minister or Attorney General.
              (5)   A report under this section may be combined with another annual report of the
                    Commission.
              (6)   A report under this section must be tabled in each House of Parliament as soon
                    as practicable after the report is received by the Minister and the Attorney
                    General.



Page 9
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 2 Amendment of Crime Commission Act 2012 No 66



              (7)   This section is repealed 2 years after it commences.
[26]   Schedule 5 Savings, transitional and other provisions
       Insert at the end of the schedule, with appropriate part numbering—

       Part         Provision consequent on enactment of Crimes and
                    Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised
                    Crimes Reforms) Act 2026
          1   Certain provisions cease to have effect
              (1)   A relevant provision ceases to have effect 12 months after the day on which
                    the relevant provision commences.
              (2)   In this clause—
                    relevant provision means a provision of this Act inserted by the Crimes and
                    Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Act 2026
                    in relation to organised crime offence summonses, other than sections 87 and
                    88.




Page 10
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 3 Amendment of Crimes Act 1900 No 40



Schedule 3             Amendment of Crimes Act 1900 No 40
[1]   Section 26A
      Insert after section 26—
      26A    Aggravated conspiracy to murder
             (1)   A person who commits an offence under section 26 in circumstances of
                   aggravation is guilty of an offence.
                   Maximum penalty—imprisonment for life.
             (2)   For subsection (1), circumstances of aggravation means circumstances in
                   which the conduct that constitutes the offence under section 26 is conduct that
                   is linked to organised crime.
             (3)   Without limiting subsection (2), conduct may be linked to organised crime if
                   the conduct—
                    (a) is committed by 2 or more persons, or
                   (b) involves substantial planning and organisation, or
                    (c) involves systemic and continuing activity, or
                   (d) is committed to obtain profit, power or influence, or
                    (e) is committed for the purpose of retribution against another person or
                         group of persons.
             (4)   If, on the trial of a person for an offence under subsection (1), the jury is not
                   satisfied the accused is guilty of the offence but is satisfied on the evidence the
                   person is guilty of an offence under section 26—
                    (a) the jury may find the person not guilty of the offence charged but guilty
                          of an offence under section 26, and
                   (b) the accused is liable to punishment for the offence under section 26.
[2]   Section 30A
      Insert after section 30—
      30A    Aggravated attempts to murder
             (1)   A person who commits an offence under a relevant provision in circumstances
                   of aggravation is guilty of an offence.
                   Maximum penalty—imprisonment for life.
             (2)   For subsection (1), circumstances of aggravation means circumstances in
                   which the conduct that constitutes the offence under the relevant provision is
                   conduct that is linked to organised crime.
             (3)   Without limiting subsection (2), conduct may be linked to organised crime if
                   the conduct—
                    (a) is committed by 2 or more persons, or
                   (b) involves substantial planning and organisation, or
                    (c) involves systemic and continuing activity, or
                   (d) is committed to obtain profit, power or influence, or
                    (e) is committed for the purpose of retribution against another person or
                         group of persons.




Page 11
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 3 Amendment of Crimes Act 1900 No 40



             (4)   If, on the trial of a person for an offence under subsection (1), the jury is not
                   satisfied the accused is guilty of the offence but is satisfied on the evidence the
                   person is guilty of an offence under a relevant provision—
                    (a) the jury may find the person not guilty of the offence charged but guilty
                          of an offence under a relevant provision, and
                   (b) the accused is liable to punishment for the offence under the relevant
                          provision.
             (5)   In this section—
                   relevant provision means section 27, 28, 29 or 30.
[3]    Part 3, Division 15D
       Insert after Division 15C—

       Division 15D       Use of digital platforms in relation to offences linked to
                          organised crime
      91UA   Definition
                   In this division—
                   organised crime offence has the same meaning as in the Law Enforcement
                   (Powers and Responsibilities) Act 2002, Part 5, Division 4B.
       91V   Administering digital platform used to arrange or facilitate conduct
             constituting organised crime offence
             (1)   A person (the administrator) is guilty of an offence if—
                   (a) the administrator administers, or assists in the administration of, a
                         digital platform, and
                   (b) the digital platform is used by another person to arrange or facilitate
                         conduct that would constitute an organised crime offence, and
                   (c) the administrator—
                          (i) intends for the digital platform to be used by another person to
                                arrange or facilitate conduct that would constitute an organised
                                crime offence, or
                         (ii) is aware the digital platform is being used by another person to
                                arrange or facilitate conduct that would constitute an organised
                                crime offence.
                   Maximum penalty—imprisonment for 14 years.
             (2)   In proceedings for an offence against subsection (1), it is not necessary to
                   prove the identity of the person using the digital platform to arrange or
                   facilitate conduct that would constitute an organised crime offence.
             (3)   In this section—
                   administer, a digital platform, includes the following—
                    (a) design, create, manage or maintain the digital platform, part of the
                          digital platform or a function of the digital platform,
                   (b) provide a device to host the digital platform, part of the digital platform
                          or a function of the digital platform,
                    (c) facilitate the operation and use of the digital platform, part of the digital
                          platform or a function of the digital platform.




Page 12
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 3 Amendment of Crimes Act 1900 No 40


     91W     Encouraging use of digital platform to arrange or facilitate conduct
             constituting organised crime offence
             (1)   A person is guilty of an offence if—
                   (a) the person is 18 or more years of age, and
                   (b) the person encourages another person to use a digital platform, and
                   (c) the person intends for the other person to use the digital platform to
                         arrange or facilitate conduct that would constitute an organised crime
                         offence.
                   Maximum penalty—imprisonment for 14 years.
             (2)   In determining whether a person has encouraged another person to use a
                   digital platform with the intention the person use the platform to arrange or
                   facilitate conduct that would constitute an organised crime offence in
                   proceedings for an offence against this section, it is not necessary to prove—
                    (a) the identity of the person encouraged to use the digital platform to
                           arrange or facilitate conduct that would constitute an organised crime
                           offence, or
                   (b) another person in fact used the digital platform to arrange or facilitate
                           conduct that would constitute an organised crime offence, or
                    (c) if another person did in fact use the digital platform to arrange or
                           facilitate conduct that would constitute an organised crime offence—
                           that it was the defendant’s encouragement that caused the person to use
                           the digital platform to arrange or facilitate the conduct.
     91X     Providing information about avoiding detection
             (1)   A person is guilty of an offence if the person intentionally provides
                   information to another person about how to avoid detection of, or prosecution
                   for, conduct that involves the commission of an offence against section 91V
                   or 91W.
                   Maximum penalty—imprisonment for 14 years.
             (2)   In proceedings for an offence against subsection (1), it is not necessary to
                   prove—
                    (a) the identity of the person to whom the information was provided, or
                   (b) the information was actually used by the other person.
     91Y     Defence—reasonable steps
                   It is a defence in proceedings for an offence against section 91V that the
                   defendant, on becoming aware the digital platform was being used to arrange
                   or facilitate conduct that constituted an organised crime offence, took all
                   reasonable steps in the circumstances to prevent other persons from being able
                   to use the digital platform to arrange or facilitate conduct that constituted an
                   organised crime offence.
     91Z     Defence—public benefit
             (1)   It is a defence in proceedings for an offence against section 91V, 91W or 91X
                   that the conduct engaged in by the defendant—
                    (a) was of public benefit, and
                   (b) did not extend beyond what was of public benefit.
             (2)   Conduct is of public benefit only if the conduct is necessary for or of assistance
                   in—


Page 13
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 3 Amendment of Crimes Act 1900 No 40



                    (a)    enforcing or administering a law of—
                            (i) the State, or
                           (ii) another State or a Territory, or
                          (iii) the Commonwealth, or
                    (b)    monitoring compliance with, or investigating a contravention of, a law
                           of—
                            (i) the State, or
                           (ii) another State or a Territory, or
                          (iii) the Commonwealth, or
                    (c)    the administration of justice.
             (3)   The question of whether a person’s conduct is of public benefit is a question
                   of fact and the person’s motives for engaging in the conduct are irrelevant.
    91ZA     Defence—law enforcement officers
                   It is a defence in proceedings for an offence against section 91V, 91W or 91X
                   that—
                    (a) the defendant was, at the time of the offence, a law enforcement officer
                           acting in the course of the officer’s duties, and
                   (b) the conduct of the defendant was reasonable in the circumstances for
                           performing that duty.
    91ZB     Defence—approved research
                   It is a defence in proceedings for an offence against section 91V, 91W or 91X
                   that the conduct engaged in by the defendant—
                    (a) was necessary for or of assistance in conducting scientific, medical or
                           educational research approved by the Attorney General in writing for
                           this section, and
                   (b) did not contravene any conditions of the approval.




Page 14
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 4 Amendment of Crimes (Serious Crime Prevention Orders) Act 2016 No 15



Schedule 4             Amendment of Crimes (Serious Crime Prevention
                       Orders) Act 2016 No 15
[1]   Section 3 Definitions
      Insert in alphabetical order in section 3(1)—
                   interim serious crime prevention order—see section 12A(2).
[2]   Part 2A
      Insert after Part 2—

      Part 2A Interim serious crime prevention orders
      12A    Supreme Court may make interim serious crime prevention orders
             (1)   This section applies if—
                   (a) proceedings on an application by an eligible applicant for a serious
                         crime prevention order are before the Supreme Court, and
                   (b) it appears to the Court the matters alleged in the application would, if
                         proved, justify the making of a serious crime prevention order.
             (2)   The Supreme Court may make an order (an interim serious crime prevention
                   order) against a person specified in the application.
             (3)   In determining whether to make an interim serious crime prevention order, the
                   Supreme Court may admit and take into account hearsay evidence despite any
                   rule relating to the admission of hearsay evidence, whether under the Evidence
                   Act 1995 or otherwise, if—
                    (a) the Court is satisfied the evidence is from a reliable source and is
                          otherwise relevant and of probative value, and
                   (b) the person against whom the order is proposed to be made has been
                          notified of, and served with a copy of, the evidence before its admission.
      12B    Duration of interim serious crime prevention orders
             (1)   An interim serious crime prevention order commences on the later of the
                   following—
                    (a) the day on which the order is served on the person against whom the
                         order is made,
                   (b) the day specified in the order.
             (2)   An interim serious crime prevention order expires on the earlier of the
                   following—
                    (a) the day specified in the order,
                   (b) if the appropriate court makes a serious crime prevention order at the
                         end of the relevant application proceedings—the day the order against
                         the person commences,
                    (c) the day the application for a serious crime prevention order against the
                         person is withdrawn,
                   (d) the day the court decides, at the end of the relevant application
                         proceedings, not to make the serious crime prevention order against the
                         person.




Page 15
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 4 Amendment of Crimes (Serious Crime Prevention Orders) Act 2016 No 15



             (3)   For subsection (2), the day specified in the interim serious crime prevention
                   order must not be more than 28 days after the order commences.
     12C     Extension of interim serious crime prevention orders
             (1)   The Supreme Court may, on application by the eligible applicant, extend an
                   interim serious crime prevention order.
             (2)   However, the total of the periods for which interim serious crime prevention
                   orders can be in force in relation to a person must not be more than 3 months.
     12D     Content of interim serious crime prevention orders
             (1)   Section 6 applies to the content of an interim serious crime prevention order in
                   the same way as the section applies to the content of a serious crime prevention
                   order.
             (2)   For subsection (1), section 6 applies as if a reference in the section to a serious
                   crime prevention order included a reference to an interim serious crime
                   prevention order.
     12E     Service of interim serious crime prevention orders
             (1)   The eligible applicant for the serious crime prevention order in relation to
                   which the interim serious crime prevention order is made must ensure the
                   interim serious crime prevention order is served on the person against whom
                   the order is made.
             (2)   The interim serious crime prevention order—
                   (a) may be served by the eligible applicant or another person, and
                   (b) must be served by means of personal service.
     12F     Contravention of interim serious crime prevention orders
             (1)   Section 8 applies to the contravention of an interim serious crime prevention
                   order in the same way as the section applies to a contravention of a serious
                   crime prevention order.
             (2)   To avoid doubt, sections 9 and 10 apply to a conviction of an offence against
                   section 8 in relation to an interim serious crime prevention order in the same
                   way as the sections apply in relation to a conviction of an offence against
                   section 8 in relation to a serious crime prevention order.
             (3)   For subsections (1) and (2), sections 8–10 apply as if a reference in the sections
                   to a serious crime prevention order included a reference to an interim serious
                   crime prevention order.
     12G     Appeals against making of interim serious crime prevention orders
             (1)   Section 11 applies to an appeal against the making of an interim serious crime
                   prevention order in the same way as the section applies to the appeal against
                   the making of a serious crime prevention order.
             (2)   For subsection (1), section 11 applies as if a reference in the section to—
                   (a) a serious crime prevention order included a reference to an interim
                         serious crime prevention order, and
                   (b) the applicant for the order were a reference to the applicant for the
                         serious crime prevention order in relation to which the interim serious
                         crime prevention order was made.




Page 16
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 4 Amendment of Crimes (Serious Crime Prevention Orders) Act 2016 No 15


      12H     Variation or revocation of interim serious crime prevention orders
              (1)   Section 12 applies to the variation or revocation of an interim serious crime
                    prevention order in the same way as the section applies to the variation or
                    revocation of a serious crime prevention order.
              (2)   For subsection (1), section 12 applies as if a reference in the section to—
                    (a) a serious crime prevention order included a reference to an interim
                          serious crime prevention order, and
                    (b) the applicant for the order were a reference to the applicant for the
                          serious crime prevention order in relation to which the interim serious
                          crime prevention order was made, and
                    (c) the proceedings for the original order were a reference to the
                          proceedings for the application for the serious crime prevention order in
                          relation to which the interim serious crime prevention order was made.
[3]   Section 14 Rules of court
      Insert “, or in relation to interim serious crime prevention orders,” after “orders”.
[4]   Schedule 1 Savings, transitional and other provisions
      Insert at the end of the schedule, with appropriate part numbering—

      Part          Provision consequent on enactment of Crimes and
                    Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised
                    Crimes Reforms) Act 2026
          1   Application of Part 2A
                    Part 2A, as inserted by the Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further
                    Organised Crimes Reforms) Act 2026, extends to an application for a serious
                    crime prevention order made but not finally determined before the
                    commencement of Part 2A.




Page 17
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 5 Amendment of Law Enforcement (Powers and Responsibilities) Act 2002 No 103



Schedule 5               Amendment of Law Enforcement (Powers and
                         Responsibilities) Act 2002 No 103
[1]   Whole Act, except as otherwise amended by this schedule
      Omit “digital evidence access order” wherever occurring.
      Insert instead “digital evidence access order (warrant)”.
[2]   Whole Act, except as otherwise amended by this schedule
      Omit “digital evidence access orders” wherever occurring.
      Insert instead “digital evidence access orders (warrant)”.
[3]   Section 3 Interpretation
      Omit section 3(1), definitions of computer, digital evidence access order and specified
      person.
      Insert in alphabetical order—
                    computer—
                    (a) for Part 5, Division 4A—see section 76AA, or
                    (b) for Part 5, Division 4B—see section 76AR.
                    digital evidence access order (organised crime), for Part 5, Division 4B—see
                    section 76AR.
                    digital evidence access order (warrant), for Part 5, Division 4A—see section
                    46.
                    organised crime offence, for Part 5, Division 4B—see section 76AS.
                    serious offence, for Part 5, Division 4B—see section 76AR.
                    specified person—
                    (a) for Part 5, Division 4A—see section 76AA, or
                    (b) for Part 5, Division 4B—see section 76AR.
[4]   Section 3(1), definitions of “eligible applicant” and “eligible Judge”, paragraph (a)
      Omit “Part 5” wherever occurring.
      Insert instead “Part 5, Division 4A”.
[5]   Section 46 Interpretation
      Insert after section 46(1), definition of eligible issuing officer, paragraph (b)—
                   (b1) for a digital evidence access order (organised crime)—a Judge of the
                           Local Court, or
[6]   Section 46(1), definition of “executing officer”, paragraph (d)
      Omit “officer.” from paragraph (c).
      Insert instead—
                          officer, or
                   (d)    for a digital evidence access order (organised crime)—any police
                          officer.
[7]   Part 5, Division 4A, heading
      Insert “(warrant)” after “orders”.


Page 18
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 5 Amendment of Law Enforcement (Powers and Responsibilities) Act 2002 No 103


 [8]    Section 76AE Applications for digital evidence access orders by telephone
        Insert after section 76AE(4)—
              (4A)   The applicant must, as soon as practicable after making the application, verify
                     the information given by the applicant in or in connection with the application
                     by affidavit given to the eligible issuing officer.
 [9]    Section 76AM Effect of digital evidence access order
        Omit “suitable” from section 76AM(2B).
        Insert instead “support”.
[10]    Section 76AM(4), definition of “suitable person”
        Omit “suitable”.
        Insert instead “support”.
[11]    Section 76AO Failure to comply with digital evidence access order
        Omit “5 years” from section 76AO(1), penalty.
        Insert instead “7 years”.
[12]    Part 5, Division 4B
        Insert after section 76AQ—

        Division 4B          Digital evidence access orders (organised crime)

        Subdivision 1          Preliminary
       76AR    Definitions
                     In this division—
                     computer has the same meaning as in Division 4A.
                     digital evidence access order (organised crime) means an order issued under
                     section 76AZB(3).
                     organised crime offence—see section 76AS.
                     serious offence means the following offences—
                      (a) an aggravated circumstances offence within the meaning of the Crimes
                            Act 1900, section 195,
                     (b) an offence against the Crimes Act 1900, section 55 or 86, Part 3,
                            Division 15, Part 3A, Division 5, Part 4, Division 2, section 99 or 192E
                            or Part 4AC,
                      (c) an offence against the Firearms Act 1996, section 7 or 7A,
                     (d) an offence against the Public Health (Tobacco) Act 2008, section 6(1)
                            or 7(1),
                      (e) another offence prescribed by the regulations.
                     specified person, for a digital evidence access order (organised crime), means
                     a person specified in the order as being subject to a direction under the order.
       76AS    Meaning of “organised crime offence”
               (1)   In this division, organised crime offence means a serious offence that is linked
                     to organised crime.



Page 19
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 5 Amendment of Law Enforcement (Powers and Responsibilities) Act 2002 No 103



             (2)   Without limiting subsection (1), a serious offence may be linked to organised
                   crime if the serious offence—
                   (a) is committed by 2 or more persons, or
                   (b) involves substantial planning and organisation, or
                   (c) involves systemic and continuing activity, or
                   (d) is committed to obtain profit, power or influence, or
                   (e) is committed for the purpose of retribution against another person or
                         group of persons.

      Subdivision 2          Applications for digital evidence access orders
                             (organised crime)
    76AT     General matters for applications for digital evidence access orders (organised
             crime)
             (1)   A police officer may apply for a digital evidence access order (organised
                   crime) in relation to a computer that has been lawfully seized by a police
                   officer other than in connection with the following—
                   (a) a search warrant within the meaning of Division 4A,
                   (b) a crime scene warrant.
             (2)   An application for a digital evidence access order (organised crime) may be
                   made only if the police officer reasonably suspects data contained on the
                   computer is connected to or relevant to the investigation of an organised crime
                   offence.
             (3)   An application for a digital evidence access order (organised crime) may be
                   made—
                   (a) within 14 days after the computer is lawfully seized, or
                   (b) on a later date, but only if the police officer applying for the order
                        demonstrates that it was not reasonably practicable to apply within 14
                        days.
   76AU      Applications for digital evidence access orders (organised crime) in person
             (1)   An application for a digital evidence access order (organised crime) may be
                   made in person.
             (2)   An application for a digital evidence access order (organised crime) made
                   under this section must be in writing in the form prescribed by the regulations.
             (3)   An eligible issuing officer must not issue a digital evidence access order
                   (organised crime) under this section unless the information given by the
                   applicant in or in connection with the application is verified before the eligible
                   issuing officer—
                    (a) on oath or affirmation, or
                   (b) by affidavit.
             (4)   An eligible issuing officer may administer an oath or affirmation or take an
                   affidavit for the purposes of an application for a digital evidence access order
                   (organised crime).




Page 20
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 5 Amendment of Law Enforcement (Powers and Responsibilities) Act 2002 No 103


    76AV     Applications for digital evidence access orders (organised crime) by email or
             other electronic means
             (1)   An application for a digital evidence access order (organised crime) may be
                   made—
                   (a) by email, or
                   (b) in another way prescribed by the regulations for this section.
             (2)   An application for a digital evidence access order (organised crime) made
                   under this section must be in the form prescribed by the regulations.
             (3)   An eligible issuing officer must not issue a digital evidence access order
                   (organised crime) under this section unless the information given by the
                   applicant in or in connection with the application is verified—
                    (a) before the eligible issuing officer on oath or affirmation, or
                   (b) by affidavit.
             (4)   An eligible issuing officer may administer an oath or affirmation or take an
                   affidavit for the purposes of an application for a digital evidence access order
                   (organised crime).
             (5)   The requirement under subsection (3)(a) for information to be verified before
                   an eligible issuing officer is taken to be satisfied if—
                   (a) the applicant appears before the eligible issuing officer by audio visual
                          link or telephone, and
                   (b) the eligible issuing officer administers the oath or affirmation by the
                          same means.
             (6)   If the eligible issuing officer issues the digital evidence access order
                   (organised crime) on an application made under this section, the eligible
                   issuing officer may—
                    (a) email the signed order to the applicant, or
                   (b) give the signed order to the applicant in another way prescribed by the
                         regulations.
   76AW      Applications for digital evidence access orders (organised crime) by
             telephone
             (1)   An application for a digital evidence access order (organised crime) may be
                   made by telephone if it is not practicable for the application to be made—
                   (a) in person under section 76AU, or
                   (b) by email or in another way under section 76AV.
                   Note— Telephone includes radio, facsimile and any other communication device.
             (2)   An eligible issuing officer must not issue a digital evidence access order
                   (organised crime) on an application made by telephone unless the eligible
                   issuing officer is satisfied—
                    (a) the digital evidence access order (organised crime) is required urgently,
                         and
                   (b) it is not practicable for the application to be made in person under
                         section 76AU or by email or in another way under section 76AV.
             (3)   If it is not practicable for an application for a digital evidence access order
                   (organised crime) to be made by telephone directly to an eligible issuing
                   officer, the application may be transmitted to the eligible issuing officer by
                   another person on behalf of the applicant.


Page 21
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 5 Amendment of Law Enforcement (Powers and Responsibilities) Act 2002 No 103



             (4)   An eligible issuing officer who issues a digital evidence access order
                   (organised crime) on an application made by telephone must—
                    (a) complete and sign the digital evidence access order (organised crime),
                         and
                   (b) either—
                          (i) give the digital evidence access order (organised crime) to the
                                person who made the application, or
                         (ii) inform the person of the terms of the digital evidence access order
                                (organised crime) and the date and time the order was signed.
             (5)   The applicant must, as soon as practicable after making the application, verify
                   the information given by the applicant in or in connection with the application
                   by affidavit given to the eligible issuing officer.
             (6)   If a digital evidence access order (organised crime) is issued on an application
                   made by telephone and the applicant was not given the order, the applicant
                   must—
                    (a) complete a form of digital evidence access order (organised crime) in
                          the terms indicated by the eligible issuing officer under subsection
                          (4)(b)(ii), and
                   (b) write on the order—
                            (i) the name of the eligible issuing officer, and
                           (ii) the date and time the order was signed.
             (7)   A form of digital evidence access order (organised crime) completed under
                   subsection (6) is taken to be a digital evidence access order (organised crime)
                   issued in accordance with this Act.
             (8)   A digital evidence access order (organised crime) must be given by an eligible
                   issuing officer by email, if the facilities to do so are readily available, and the
                   emailed copy is taken to be the original document.
    76AX     Information in applications for digital evidence access orders (organised
             crime)
             (1)   An application for a digital evidence access order (organised crime) must
                   include the following information—
                    (a) the name of the applicant,
                   (b) details of the person in relation to whom it is proposed the digital
                         evidence access order (organised crime) will be issued,
                    (c) a description of the computer,
                   (d) how and when the computer was obtained by a police officer,
                    (e) details of the organised crime offence in relation to which it is proposed
                         the digital evidence access order (organised crime) will be issued,
                         including information about how the serious offence is linked to
                         organised crime,
                    (f) why the person the subject of the application is reasonably suspected
                         of—
                          (i) committing the organised crime offence, or
                         (ii) having knowledge of the organised crime offence,
                   (g) particulars of the grounds on which the application is based, including
                         the grounds for reasonably suspecting data contained on the computer



Page 22
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 5 Amendment of Law Enforcement (Powers and Responsibilities) Act 2002 No 103



                          is connected to or relevant to the investigation of an organised crime
                          offence,
                    (h)   if a previous application for the same digital evidence access order
                          (organised crime) was refused—details of the refusal and any additional
                          information required by section 76AZ,
                    (i)   other information required by the regulations.
             (2)   If the person the subject of the application for the digital evidence access order
                   (organised crime) is less than 18 years of age, the application must be
                   accompanied by a document signed by a police officer of the rank of Inspector
                   or above authorising the applicant to make the application.
             (3)   The applicant must provide, either orally or in writing, any further information
                   the eligible issuing officer requires about the grounds on which the digital
                   evidence access order (organised crime) is being sought.
             (4)   Nothing in this section requires an applicant for a digital evidence access order
                   (organised crime) to disclose the identity of a person from whom information
                   was obtained if the applicant is satisfied the disclosure might jeopardise the
                   safety of any person.
    76AY     False or misleading information in applications
             (1)   A person must not, in or in connection with an application for a digital
                   evidence access order (organised crime), give information to an eligible
                   issuing officer that the person knows to be false or misleading in a material
                   particular.
                   Maximum penalty—100 penalty units or imprisonment for 2 years, or both.
             (2)   This section applies whether or not the information given is also verified on
                   oath or affirmation or by affidavit.
    76AZ     Further application for digital evidence access order (organised crime) after
             refusal
                   If an application by a police officer for a digital evidence access order
                   (organised crime) is refused by an eligible issuing officer, the police officer or
                   another police officer who is aware of the application may not make a further
                   application for the same digital evidence access order (organised crime) unless
                   the further application provides additional information that justifies the
                   making of the further application.

      Subdivision 3          Determining applications for digital evidence access
                             orders (organised crime)
  76AZA      Matters to be considered in determining reasonable grounds for digital
             evidence access orders (organised crime)
                   An eligible issuing officer, when determining whether there are reasonable
                   grounds to issue a digital evidence access order (organised crime), must
                   consider the reliability of the information on which the application is based,
                   including the nature of the source of the information.
  76AZB      Decisions about applications for digital evidence access orders (organised
             crime)
             (1)   The eligible issuing officer must—
                   (a) consider the application for the digital evidence access order (organised
                         crime), and


Page 23
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 5 Amendment of Law Enforcement (Powers and Responsibilities) Act 2002 No 103



                    (b)   decide whether or not to grant the application and issue a digital
                          evidence access order (organised crime).
             (2)   The eligible issuing officer may grant an application for a digital evidence
                   access order (organised crime) only if the eligible issuing officer is satisfied—
                   (a) there are reasonable grounds for believing the computer was lawfully
                         seized, and
                   (b) there are reasonable grounds for suspecting data contained on the
                         computer is connected to or relevant to the investigation of an organised
                         crime offence, and
                   (c) there are reasonable grounds to suspect the person in relation to whom
                         it is proposed the digital evidence access order (organised crime) will be
                         issued—
                          (i) committed the organised crime offence, or
                         (ii) has knowledge of the organised crime offence, and
                   (d) the person in relation to whom it is proposed the digital evidence access
                         order (organised crime) will be issued has relevant knowledge of—
                          (i) the computer or a computer network of which the computer
                                 forms or formed a part, or
                         (ii) measures applied to protect data held in, or accessible from, the
                                 computer.
             (3)   If the eligible issuing officer grants the application, the officer must issue a
                   digital evidence access order (organised crime) to the applicant.

      Subdivision 4          Issue of digital evidence access orders (organised
                             crime)
  76AZC      Form of digital evidence access orders (organised crime)
             (1)   A digital evidence access order (organised crime) must be in the form
                   prescribed by the regulations.
             (2)   Without limiting subsection (1), a digital evidence access order (organised
                   crime) must specify any conditions imposed in relation to the execution of the
                   order.
  76AZD      Term of digital evidence access order (organised crime)
             (1)   A digital evidence access order (organised crime) remains in force for a period
                   of 7 business days after the order is issued.
             (2)   A digital evidence access order (organised crime) may be extended by an
                   eligible issuing officer, on application by the executing officer for the order,
                   for no more than 3 additional periods of 7 business days.
             (3)   An application for a further digital evidence access order (organised crime)
                   may be made in relation to the same computer.
  76AZE      Effect of digital evidence access order (organised crime)
             (1)   The executing officer for a digital evidence access order (organised crime)
                   may direct the specified person to—
                   (a) give the officer any information or assistance reasonable and necessary
                        to enable the officer to access data held in or accessible from a computer
                        specified in, or within the scope of, the order, or



Page 24
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 5 Amendment of Law Enforcement (Powers and Responsibilities) Act 2002 No 103



                    (b)   give the officer any information or assistance reasonable and necessary
                          to allow the officer to—
                           (i) copy data from a computer specified in, or within the scope of,
                                 the order to another computer, or
                          (ii) convert the data into a documentary form or another form
                                 intelligible to a computer used by the officer.
             (2)   Without limiting subsection (1), the executing officer may require the
                   specified person to provide reasonable and necessary assistance in accessing
                   data on a computer secured by biometric means, including, for example,
                   fingerprints or retina scans.
             (3)   Without limiting this section, a direction may specify a time by which the
                   specified person is required to carry out the direction.
             (4)   The executing officer must not direct a specified person who is less than 18
                   years of age unless reasonable steps are taken to have a support person present
                   to represent the interests of the specified person while the specified person is
                   directed.
             (5)   To avoid doubt—
                   (a) information given by a specified person under subsection (1) to access
                         data held in or accessible from a computer may be used only for that
                         purpose and no other purpose, and
                   (b) this section is subject to any other provision of this Act or another Act
                         that provides for how a police officer may take particulars that are
                         necessary to identify a person.
                          Note— See, for example, Part 10, which provides for the taking of identification
                          particulars from persons in custody and other offenders, including section 136,
                          which provides for identification particulars of children who are less than 14
                          years of age.
             (6)   In this section—
                   support person, for a specified person, means a person, other than a police
                   officer, who—
                    (a) is acceptable to the specified person, and
                   (b) is—
                           (i) a parent or guardian of the specified person, or
                          (ii) capable of representing the interests of the specified person.
  76AZF      Duty to produce digital evidence access order (organised crime)
                   A person executing a digital evidence access order (organised crime) must
                   produce the order for inspection by the specified person for the order if
                   requested by the specified person.
  76AZG      Failure to comply with digital evidence access order (organised crime)
             (1)   A specified person for a digital evidence access order (organised crime) must
                   not, without reasonable excuse—
                   (a) fail to comply with a direction given, in accordance with the digital
                         evidence access order (organised crime), by the executing officer for the
                         order, or
                   (b) give the executing officer information that is false or misleading in a
                         material particular in purported compliance with a direction given by
                         the executing officer, unless the person informs the executing officer
                         the information is false or misleading.


Page 25
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 5 Amendment of Law Enforcement (Powers and Responsibilities) Act 2002 No 103



                      Maximum penalty—100 penalty units or imprisonment for 7 years, or both.
                (2)   Without limiting subsection (1), it is not a reasonable excuse for a specified
                      person for a digital evidence access order (organised crime) to fail to comply
                      with the order or a requirement made in accordance with the order on the
                      ground that complying with the order or the requirement would tend to
                      incriminate the person or otherwise expose the person to a penalty.

         Subdivision 5          Miscellaneous
   76AZH       Record of proceedings before eligible issuing officer
                (1)   An eligible issuing officer who issues a digital evidence access order
                      (organised crime) must ensure a record is made of all relevant particulars of
                      the grounds the eligible issuing officer has relied on to justify the issue of the
                      order.
                (2)   An eligible issuing officer who refuses to issue a digital evidence access order
                      (organised crime) must ensure a record is made of all relevant particulars of
                      the grounds the eligible issuing officer has relied on to justify the refusal to
                      issue the order.
                (3)   A matter that might disclose the identity of a person must not be recorded
                      under this section if the eligible issuing officer is satisfied that making the
                      record might jeopardise the safety of any person.
                      Note— Regulations made under section 238(3) may provide that certain documents
                      that may disclose the identity of persons are not available for inspection.

       76AZI   Defects in digital evidence access orders (organised crime)
                      A digital evidence access order (organised crime) is not invalidated by a
                      defect, other than a defect that affects the substance of the order in a material
                      particular.
[13]     Section 80F Information in applications for DECCD access orders
         Insert “or was” after “being” in section 80F(1)(c).
[14]     Section 80J Decisions about applications for DECCD access orders
         Omit section 80J(2)(a).
         Insert instead—
                       (a)   there are reasonable grounds for suspecting the person specified in the
                             application—
                              (i) is in possession of a device suspected of being a dedicated
                                    encrypted criminal communication device and is committing a
                                    DECCD offence, or
                             (ii) was in possession of a device suspected of being a dedicated
                                    encrypted criminal communication device and was committing a
                                    DECCD offence at the time of the possession, and
[15]     Section 238 Regulations
         Omit “digital evidence access orders” wherever occurring in section 238(3).
         Insert instead “digital evidence access orders (warrant) and digital evidence access orders
         (organised crime)”.




Page 26
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 5 Amendment of Law Enforcement (Powers and Responsibilities) Act 2002 No 103


[16]   Section 243
       Omit the section.
       Insert instead—
       243   Review of Part 5, Divisions 4A and 4B
             (1)     The Minister must, from time to time, review the relevant provisions to
                     determine whether—
                     (a) the policy objectives of the relevant provisions remain valid, and
                     (b) the terms of the relevant provisions remain appropriate for achieving the
                           objectives.
             (2)     A review of the relevant provisions must be undertaken—
                     (a) for the first review—as soon as practicable after the period of 2 years
                           from the commencement of Part 5, Division 4B, and
                     (b) for subsequent reviews—at intervals of not more than 4 years.
             (3)     A report on the outcome of each review must be tabled in each House of
                     Parliament within 12 months after the last day by which the review must be
                     commenced.
             (4)     In this section—
                     relevant provisions means Part 5, Divisions 4A and 4B.
       244   Review of certain provisions by LECC
             (1)     The Law Enforcement Conduct Commission must review the relevant
                     provisions to determine whether—
                     (a) the policy objectives of the relevant provisions remain valid, and
                     (b) the terms of the relevant provisions remain appropriate for achieving the
                           objectives.
             (2)     The review must be undertaken as soon as practicable after the period of 2
                     years from the commencement of the relevant provisions.
             (3)     A report on the outcome of the review must be tabled in each House of
                     Parliament within 6 months after the review commences.
             (4)     In this section—
                     relevant provisions means the amendments to this Act made by the Crimes
                     and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Act
                     2026.




Page 27
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 6 Amendment of Criminal Procedure Act 1986 No 209



Schedule 6             Amendment of Criminal Procedure Act 1986 No
                       209
[1]   Schedule 1 Indictable offences triable summarily
      Omit “section 76AO” from Table 2, clause 10J.
      Insert instead “section 76AO(1) or 76AZG(1)”.
[2]   Schedule 1, Table 2, clause 27A
      Insert after clause 27—
      27A    Crime Commission Act 2012
                   An offence under the Crime Commission Act 2012, section 25, 37(3), 45(3),
                   45A(6), 47D(5) or 47G(1).




Page 28
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 7 Amendment of Road Transport Act 2013 No 18



Schedule 7               Amendment of Road Transport Act 2013 No 18
[1]    Section 271A
       Omit the section.
       Insert instead—
      271A   Participation by authorised government agencies in face matching services
             (1)   An authorised government agency may enter into an arrangement, by
                   agreement, understanding or otherwise, to facilitate participation in a face
                   matching service.
             (2)   An authorised government agency may do the following—
                   (a) collect face-matching service information for an authorised purpose,
                   (b) use face-matching service information for an authorised purpose,
                   (c) release or disclose face-matching service information to a participant or
                         the Commonwealth—
                          (i) for the purpose of the participant or the Commonwealth
                               participating in the national agreement, or
                         (ii) for another purpose in accordance with the national agreement or
                               the Commonwealth Act.
             (3)   The Privacy and Personal Information Protection Act 1998 does not apply to
                   the extent of an inconsistency with this section.
             (4)   The regulations may provide for further matters to facilitate participation in a
                   face matching service.
             (5)   In this section—
                   authorised government agency means the following—
                    (a) TfNSW,
                   (b) an agent of TfNSW,
                    (c) another government agency participating in a face matching service in
                          accordance with—
                           (i) the national agreement, or
                          (ii) the Commonwealth Act.
                   authorised purpose, for an authorised government agency, means—
                    (a) for the purpose of a face matching service, or
                   (b) another lawful purpose in connection with the exercise of the authorised
                          government agency’s functions.
                   collect includes download.
                   Commonwealth Act means the Identity Verification Services Act 2023 of the
                   Commonwealth.
                   face matching service has the same meaning as in the national agreement.
                   Face Matching Service Hub has the same meaning as in the Commonwealth
                   Act.
                   Note— See the Commonwealth Act, section 5.
                   face-matching service information has the same meaning as in the
                   Commonwealth Act.
                   Note— Face-matching service information includes any information that is included
                   in a driver licence or otherwise associated with a driver licence and information
                   included in a document that is issued by a State or Territory in a name of an individual,


Page 29
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 7 Amendment of Road Transport Act 2013 No 18


                   contains a photograph of the individual and can be used to prove the individual’s
                   identity, including a “proof of age” card. See the Commonwealth Act, section 6(2)(g)
                   and (h).
                   national agreement means the Intergovernmental Agreement on Identity
                   Matching Services entered into by the Commonwealth, the States and the
                   Territories in October 2017, as in force from time to time.
                   NDLFRS has the same meaning as in the Commonwealth Act.
                   Note— NDLFRS is short for National Driver Licence Facial Recognition Solution and
                   has the meaning given by the Commonwealth Act, section 5.
                   release includes—
                   (a) upload to the NDLFRS, and
                   (b) relay electronic communications using the Face Matching Service Hub.




Page 30
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 8 Amendment of Roads Act 1993 No 33



Schedule 8             Amendment of Roads Act 1993 No 33
[1]    Section 250A Approved camera recording devices—toll offences
       Omit section 250A(4)–(5A).
[2]    Part 15B
       Insert after section 261B—

       Part 15B Collection, storage and disclosure of toll camera
               images
      261C   Definitions
                   In this part—
                   approved toll camera has the same meaning as in section 250A.
                   photograph has the same meaning as in section 250A.
                   relevant information means information acquired in the exercise of functions
                   in connection with the use or operation of an approved toll camera, including
                   a photograph taken by an approved toll camera under section 261D.
                   serious indictable offence has the same meaning as in the Crimes Act 1900.
                   toll camera image means a photograph taken by an approved toll camera.
      261D   Photographs approved toll camera is permitted to take
                   An approved toll camera is permitted to take a photograph of the following—
                   (a) a vehicle,
                   (b) the driver of a vehicle,
                   (c) a passenger in a vehicle, including a passenger who is less than 16 years
                        of age.
      261E   Prohibition on collection, storage and disclosure of toll camera images except
             for certain purposes
                   A person who acquires relevant information must not directly or indirectly
                   make a record of, or make use of or disclose, the relevant information except
                   as follows—
                   (a) in the exercise of functions in connection with—
                           (i) the payment, collection and enforcement of tolls, or
                          (ii) another function prescribed in relation to tolls,
                   (b) as permitted under section 261F or 261G.
                   Maximum penalty—50 penalty units.
      261F   Collection, storage and disclosure of toll camera images for purposes relating
             to NSW Police Force
             (1)   A person may collect, store and disclose relevant information—
                   (a) for the investigation of serious indictable offences by the NSW Police
                         Force and the prosecution of the serious indictable offences, or
                   (b) if it is reasonably necessary to locate a person who the NSW Police
                         Force has been notified is missing, or
                   (c) to prevent or lessen a serious threat to the life, or health or safety, of a
                         person, including a child, or


Page 31
Crimes and Other Legislation Amendment (Further Organised Crimes Reforms) Bill 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 8 Amendment of Roads Act 1993 No 33



                    (d)   to support an investigation into a death, suspected death, fire or
                          explosion for the purposes of the Coroners Act 2009.
             (2)   A person must, if asked by the Law Enforcement Conduct Commission,
                   collect, store or disclose the following information for the purposes of the Law
                   Enforcement Conduct Commission’s functions—
                   (a) relevant information,
                   (b) information about the collection, storage and disclosure of relevant
                          information under subsection (1).
    261G     Disclosure of toll camera images to other authorised agencies
             (1)   A person may disclose relevant information to an authorised agency if—
                   (a) either or both of the following apply—
                          (i) the person is—
                               (A) a toll operator, or
                               (B) an officer of a toll operator, or
                               (C) a person exercising functions on behalf of or otherwise
                                     acting under the authority of a toll operator,
                         (ii) the disclosure of the information is in accordance with a protocol
                               approved by the Privacy Commissioner, and
                   (b) the relevant information was acquired in relation to a vehicle driven in
                         contravention of a requirement to pay a relevant toll.
             (2)   In this section—
                   authorised agency means the following persons or agencies—
                    (a) the Australian Crime Commission,
                   (b) the Independent Commission Against Corruption,
                    (c) the New South Wales Crime Commission,
                   (d) the NSW Police Force,
                    (e) the Law Enforcement Conduct Commission,
                    (f) the Ombudsman,
                   (g) another person or government agency prescribed for the purpose of this
                          paragraph.




Page 32
