                                                Passed by both Houses




                              New South Wales




Justice Legislation Amendment
(Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026
Contents
                                                                 Page

             1   Name of Act                                       2
             2   Commencement                                      2
             3   Explanatory notes                                 2
Schedule 1       Amendment of Acts                                 3
I certify that this public bill, which originated in the Legislative Assembly, has finally passed
the Legislative Council and the Legislative Assembly of New South Wales.


                                                Clerk of the Legislative Assembly.
                                                Legislative Assembly,
                                                Sydney,                                   , 2026




                                    New South Wales




Justice Legislation Amendment
(Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026

Act No        , 2026



An Act to amend various Acts relating to courts, crimes and other Communities and Justice
portfolio matters.




I have examined this bill and find it to correspond in all respects with the bill as finally
passed by both Houses.


                                                Assistant Speaker of the Legislative Assembly.
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]




The Legislature of New South Wales enacts—
  1   Name of Act
             This Act is the Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Act (No 2) 2026.
  2   Commencement
             This Act commences as follows—
             (a) for Schedule 1.5 and 1.22—on 1 December 2026,
             (b) for Schedule 1.1[1], [3]–[13] and [16], 1.3, 1.4[1]–[3] and [9], 1.8[1], [2] and
                   [4] and 1.17[6]—on a day or days to be appointed by proclamation,
             (c) otherwise—on the date of assent to this Act.
  3   Explanatory notes
             An explanatory note in a schedule of this Act does not form part of this Act.




Page 2
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Acts



Schedule 1              Amendment of Acts
1.1 Bail Act 2013 No 26
[1]   Section 4 Definitions
      Insert in alphabetical order in section 4(1)—
                    residential rehabilitation acknowledgment—see section 28C(2)(c).
                    residential rehabilitation facility means a facility at which a residential
                    rehabilitation program to treat dependency on alcohol or drugs, or both, is
                    provided in a residential community setting.
                    residential rehabilitation program means a program of care and support to
                    treat dependency on alcohol or drugs, or both, that—
                     (a) is delivered in a residential setting that provides a range of support
                           services, such as individual and group counselling, physical health and
                           wellbeing, and education and skills training, and
                    (b) does not include the following—
                            (i) treatment on an outpatient or drop-in basis,
                           (ii) detoxification and withdrawal management, such as the
                                  short-term medical and psychological care of a person
                                  experiencing withdrawal symptoms as a result of stopping or
                                  reducing use of alcohol or drugs, or both, whether or not in a
                                  residential setting.
                    residential rehabilitation requirement—see section 28C(1).
[2]   Section 22C Temporary limitation on bail for certain young persons in relation to
      certain serious offences
      Omit “1 October 2026” from section 22C(5).
      Insert instead “4 April 2028”.
[3]   Section 25 Bail conditions can impose conduct requirements
      Insert after section 25(3)—
             (4)    A conduct requirement must not require an accused person to reside at a
                    residential rehabilitation facility for a residential rehabilitation program.
                    Note— A requirement that an accused person reside at a residential rehabilitation
                    facility for a residential rehabilitation program is a residential rehabilitation requirement
                    and is made under and subject to section 28C.

[4]   Section 28 Bail condition can impose accommodation requirements
      Omit section 28(3)(a1).
[5]   Section 28(5A)
      Insert after section 28(5)—
            (5A)    An accommodation requirement must not require an accused person to reside
                    at a residential rehabilitation facility for a residential rehabilitation program.
[6]   Section 28, note
      Omit the note.
      Insert instead—



Page 3
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Acts


                    Note 1— The court may also impose a bail condition (conduct requirements) requiring
                    the accused person to reside at the relevant accommodation while at liberty on bail.
                    Note 2— A requirement that an accused person reside at a residential rehabilitation
                    facility for a residential rehabilitation program is a residential rehabilitation requirement
                    and is made under and subject to section 28C.

[7]   Section 28C
      Insert after section 28B—
      28C    Bail condition may impose residential rehabilitation requirements
             (1)    A bail condition imposed by a bail authority on the grant of bail may include
                    a requirement (a residential rehabilitation requirement) that the accused
                    person reside at a residential rehabilitation facility for a residential
                    rehabilitation program while at liberty on bail.
                    Note— The bail authority may also impose a bail condition (conduct requirements)
                    requiring the accused person to attend and participate in a residential rehabilitation
                    program while at liberty on bail.
             (2)    A bail authority must not impose a residential rehabilitation requirement
                    unless—
                    (a) the bail authority is satisfied—
                            (i) the residential rehabilitation facility is accredited in accordance
                                  with an accreditation standard set out in the National Quality
                                  Framework, or
                           (ii) if the residential rehabilitation facility is not accredited in
                                  accordance with an accreditation standard set out in the National
                                  Quality Framework—the facility is otherwise appropriate in all
                                  the circumstances, and
                    (b) the bail authority is satisfied the residential rehabilitation facility has a
                           policy in place that provides the facility will, as soon as practicable,
                           report to a police officer if one of the following occurs—
                            (i) an accused person absconds or is otherwise absent from the
                                  facility without permission in contravention of the person’s bail
                                  conditions,
                           (ii) the early termination of an accused person’s participation in the
                                  residential rehabilitation program, including termination by an
                                  accused person or an accused person being expelled from the
                                  facility, for example, due to a contravention of facility rules or
                                  requirements,
                          (iii) another occurrence prescribed by the regulations, and
                    (c) the bail authority has been given a written acknowledgment (a
                           residential rehabilitation acknowledgment) by an appropriate
                           representative for the residential rehabilitation facility that sets out the
                           following—
                            (i) the name and role of the appropriate representative,
                           (ii) that the facility has the policy referred to in paragraph (b) in place
                                  and the facility operates in accordance with the policy,
                          (iii) other matters prescribed by the regulations, and
                    (d) the bail authority has considered the following information about the
                           residential rehabilitation facility prepared by an appropriate
                           representative for the residential rehabilitation facility—




Page 4
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Acts



                            (i)   that a place for the accused person at the residential rehabilitation
                                  facility is immediately available or that the facility estimates to
                                  have a place or places available on a specified date or dates,
                           (ii)   information about the following—
                                  (A) the level of security and supervision at the facility,
                                         including the hours of staffing and the level of supervision
                                         given to accused persons at the facility,
                                  (B) the restrictions imposed on accused persons at the facility,
                                         including prohibitions against the possession or use of
                                         alcohol or drugs at the facility,
                                  (C) the health and other therapeutic services that will be
                                         provided to the accused person,
                          (iii)   other information of a kind prescribed by the regulations.
             (3)    The regulations may make further provision for residential rehabilitation
                    requirements.
             (4)    In this section—
                    appropriate representative, of a residential rehabilitation facility, means a
                    director, secretary or officer of a corporation or organisation that operates the
                    facility, or a person engaged or employed by the person that operates the
                    facility, who is appropriate to carry out the functions under this section in the
                    opinion of—
                     (a) the bail authority imposing the bail condition, or
                    (b) the officer or court to whom the residential rehabilitation
                           acknowledgment is given, if no opinion has been formed under
                           paragraph (a).
                    National Quality Framework means—
                     (a) the document entitled National Quality Framework for Drug and
                           Alcohol Treatment Services published by the Department of Health of
                           the Commonwealth in 2018, or
                    (b) a document, prescribed by the regulations, that replaces that document.
                    Note— The National Quality Framework for Drug and Alcohol Treatment Services
                    contains a list of accreditation standards for drug and alcohol treatment services.

 [8]   Section 29 Limitation on power to impose pre-release requirements
       Insert after section 29(1)(d)—
                    (d1) a residential rehabilitation requirement,
 [9]   Section 29(3)
       Insert “, an accompaniment requirement or a residential rehabilitation requirement” after
       “accommodation requirement”.
[10]   Section 29(4AA)
       Insert after section 29(4)—
          (4AA)     A residential rehabilitation requirement is complied with when the following
                    person is given written notice by an employee of the operator of the relevant
                    residential rehabilitation facility that a suitable place at the facility is
                    immediately available for the accused person—
                     (a) for an accused person who is a child—the Secretary of the Department
                          of Communities and Justice,


Page 5
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Acts



                     (b)   otherwise—the Commissioner of Corrective Services.
[11]   Section 29(6)
       Omit the subsection.
       Insert instead—
              (6)   In this section—
                    appropriate Government representative means—
                     (a) the Secretary of the Department of Communities and Justice or a
                           delegate of the Secretary, or
                    (b) another person prescribed by the regulations.
[12]   Section 37A
       Insert after section 37—
       37A    Information to be provided about residential rehabilitation acknowledgements
              (1)   A bail authority must ensure a person who gives a residential rehabilitation
                    acknowledgment is given a written notice setting out the terms of the bail
                    condition under which the acknowledgment is required.
              (2)   A bail authority that varies a bail condition that requires a residential
                    rehabilitation acknowledgment to be given must ensure a person who gives a
                    residential rehabilitation acknowledgment in compliance with the bail
                    condition is given a written notice setting out the terms of the condition as
                    varied.
[13]   Section 52 Powers of authorised justices to vary court decisions
       Insert after section 52(2)—
             (2A)   Despite subsection (2)(b), a residence condition that requires the person
                    granted bail to reside at a residential rehabilitation facility is not reviewable by
                    an authorised justice under this section.
[14]   Section 66 Powers specific to Supreme Court
       Omit “or a police officer” from section 66(1).
       Insert instead “or, with the leave of the Supreme Court, a police officer”.
[15]   Section 66(2)
       Omit the subsection.
       Insert instead—
              (2)   The Supreme Court may hear a detention application or variation application
                    for an offence if a bail decision has been made by—
                     (a) the District Court, or
                    (b) the Local Court, or
                     (c) a police officer, but only with the leave of the Supreme Court.
[16]   Schedule 3 Savings, transitional and other provisions
       Insert at the end of the schedule, with appropriate part numbering—




Page 6
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Acts



      Part          Provisions consequent on enactment of Justice
                    Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Act (No 2)
                    2026
         1   Definitions
                    In this part—
                    commencement date means the date of the commencement of the relevant
                    amendments.
                    relevant amendments means the amendments made by the Justice Legislation
                    Amendment (Miscellaneous) Act (No 2) 2026, Schedule 1.1[1] and [3]–[13].
         2   Application of amendments
             (1)    A relevant amendment extends to offences committed, alleged to have been
                    committed or charged before the commencement date.
             (2)    To avoid doubt, after the commencement date, a variation to a bail decision
                    made before the commencement date may impose a residential rehabilitation
                    requirement.
         3   Review of operations of relevant amendments
             (1)    The Minister must review the operation of the relevant amendments to
                    determine whether—
                    (a) the policy objectives of the amendments remain valid, and
                    (b) the terms of the amendments remain appropriate for achieving the
                          objectives.
             (2)    The review must be undertaken as soon as practicable after the period of 3
                    years from the commencement date.
             (3)    A report on the outcome of the review must be tabled in each House of
                    Parliament as soon as practicable after the end of the review period.
             (4)    In this clause—
                    review period means the period ending on the day that is 12 months after the
                    day on which the review starts.

1.2 Child Protection (Offenders Registration) Act 2000 No 42
[1]   Schedule 1A Class 1 offences
      Omit “self-manipulation” from Part 1, item 22.
      Insert instead “self-penetration”.

1.3 Children (Community Service Orders) Act 1987 No 56
[1]   Section 22 Revocation of children’s community service orders on being dealt with
      for other offences
      Insert “, of the court’s own motion,” after “may” in section 22(1).

1.4 Children (Criminal Proceedings) Act 1987 No 55
[1]   Section 3 Definitions
      Insert in alphabetical order in section 3(1)—


Page 7
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Acts



                    member, of the NSW Police Force, has the same meaning as in the Police Act
                    1990, section 5.
[2]   Section 13
      Omit the section.
      Insert instead—
         13   Admissibility of statements, confessions, admissions and information
              (1)   This section applies to a statement made, or information given, to a member
                    of the NSW Police Force by a child.
              (2)   Unless a support person for the child was present while the statement was
                    made or the information was given, the statement or information must not be
                    admitted in evidence in criminal proceedings to which the child is a party,
                    including proceedings brought after the child turns 18 years of age.
              (3)   Subsection (2) does not apply if the person determining the admissibility of the
                    evidence is satisfied—
                    (a) there was proper and sufficient reason for the absence of the support
                          person, and
                    (b) it is appropriate in the circumstances to admit the statement or
                          information in evidence.
              (4)   Subsection (2) does not apply if a law required the child to make the statement
                    or give the information.
              (5)   In this section—
                    statement includes a confession and an admission.
                    support person, for a child making a statement or giving information,
                    means—
                     (a) if the child is less than 14 years of age—
                             (i) an adult who is a person responsible for the child, or
                            (ii) an adult, other than a member of the NSW Police Force, who has
                                  the consent of a person responsible for the child to be present
                                  while the child makes the statement or gives the information, or
                           (iii) an Australian legal practitioner chosen by the child, or
                    (b) if the child is at least 14 years of age—a person who has the child’s
                            consent to be present while the child makes the statement or gives the
                            information and who is—
                             (i) a person described in paragraph (a), or
                            (ii) another adult who is not a member of the NSW Police Force.
[3]   Section 13A
      Insert after section 13—
      13A     Evidence relating to intervention programs not admissible
              (1)   A statement, information or document made or given for the purpose of, or in
                    the course of, a child participating in an intervention program is not admissible
                    in evidence in civil or criminal proceedings to which the child is a party.
              (2)   For subsection (1), a child’s participation in an intervention program includes
                    the assessment of the child for participation in the program, whether or not—
                     (a) the child is participating in a program for the first time, or


Page 8
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Acts



                    (b)    the child declines or is not accepted into the program.
             (3)    Subsection (1) does not apply to a statement, information or document relating
                    to an offence committed or allegedly committed against a person who provides
                    an intervention program by a child participating in the intervention program.
             (4)    Subsection (1) does not apply if—
                    (a) the child the subject of a statement, information or document requests
                         leave of the court to adduce the statement, information or document in
                         a proceeding, and
                    (b) the court gives leave for the statement, information or document to be
                         adduced, and
                    (c) the statement, information or document is admitted into evidence.
             (5)    If a statement, information or document is admitted into evidence under
                    subsection (4), a statement, information or document made or given for the
                    purpose of, or in the course of, the child participating in an intervention
                    program is admissible in evidence in the proceedings to which subsection (4)
                    applies.
             (6)    Subsection (5) does not apply to subsequent proceedings if a statement,
                    information or document is admitted into evidence in proceedings under the
                    Bail Act 2013.
             (7)    Subsection (1) applies to proceedings under the Bail Act 2013, despite that
                    Act, section 31(1).
             (8)    Subsection (1) applies to civil and criminal proceedings that are brought after
                    the child turns 18 years of age.
             (9)    In this section—
                    intervention program—
                     (a) means a program for the treatment of children in, or at risk of contact
                           with, the criminal justice system prescribed by the regulations, and
                    (b) includes services relating to the program.
                    statement includes a confession and an admission.
[4]   Section 31 Hearing of charges in the Children’s Court
      Insert after section 31(6)—
            (6A)    The prosecutor is not required to produce a certificate under subsection (6)(a)
                    if the charge certificate for the proceedings specifies each back up offence and
                    related offence with which the person has been charged.
[5]   Section 31(8)
      Insert in alphabetical order—
                    charge certificate has the same meaning as in the Criminal Procedure Act
                    1986.
[6]   Section 31AA Application of Division
      Omit section 31AA(2).
      Insert instead—
             (2)    This division extends to the following proceedings—




Page 9
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Acts



                    (a)    proceedings involving more than one complainant, if at least one
                           complainant alleges in the proceedings that the accused person
                           committed a child sexual assault offence against the complainant,
                    (b)    proceedings in which the accused person is charged before the
                           Children’s Court with a child sexual assault offence and one or more
                           other offences, other than a serious children’s indictable offence,
                           against the same complainant.
 [7]   Section 31AA(3), definition of “child sexual assault offence”
       Omit the definition.
       Insert instead—
                     child sexual assault offence means a child sexual assault offence within the
                     meaning of the Criminal Procedure Act 1986, section 83, other than a serious
                     children’s indictable offence, in relation to which 1 or more complainants
                     were less than 18 years of age—
                     (a) for an offence committed under the Crimes Act 1900, section 73 or 73A
                            —on the date of the alleged offence, or
                     (b) otherwise—
                             (i) on the date of the alleged offence, or
                            (ii) at the beginning of the period during which the offence is alleged
                                  to have been committed.
 [8]   Section 33 Penalties
       Insert after section 33(1AA)—
          (1AAA)    If the Children’s Court makes an order under subsection (1)(c2), the Court
                    may adjourn proceedings to a date not later than 12 months after the date
                    specified under subsection (1)(c2) to allow the person to undergo
                    rehabilitation if—
                     (a) one of the following circumstances applies—
                            (i) the person has been placed in a rehabilitation program but has not
                                  yet completed the program,
                           (ii) the person has not yet been placed in a rehabilitation program but
                                  the Court is satisfied all reasonable attempts have been made to
                                  place the person in a rehabilitation program, and
                    (b) the Court considers it is in the interests of justice to adjourn the
                           proceedings for the additional period.
 [9]   Section 41 Enforcement of conditions of good behaviour bond or probation or
       compliance with outcome plan
       Omit “police force” wherever occurring in section 41(1) and (2).
       Insert instead “NSW Police Force”.
[10]   Schedule 2 Savings and transitional provisions
       Insert at the end of the schedule, with appropriate part numbering—




Page 10
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Acts



      Part          Provision consequent on enactment of Justice
                    Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Act (No 2)
                    2026
          1   Application of amendments to proceedings
                    An amendment made to section 31AA by the Justice Legislation Amendment
                    (Miscellaneous) Act (No 2) 2026 applies only to proceedings commenced after
                    the commencement of the amendment.

1.5 Court Security Act 2005 No 1
[1]   Section 9 Use of recording devices in court premises
      Insert after section 9(2)(d)—
                   (d1) the use of a recording device by the Sheriff or a sheriff’s officer in
                           accordance with the Sheriff Act 2005, section 7E,
[2]   Section 9A Prohibition on unauthorised transmission of court proceedings from
      courtroom
      Insert after section 9A(2)(e)—
                    (e1) the transmission of sounds, images or information obtained by the
                           Sheriff or a sheriff’s officer in accordance with the Sheriff Act 2005,
                           section 7E,
[3]   Section 9B Prohibition on unauthorised distribution of court recording
      Insert after section 9B(2)—
              (3)   Subsection (1) does not apply to the transmission or distribution of a recording
                    of court proceedings if the recording was obtained by the Sheriff or a sheriff’s
                    officer in accordance with the Sheriff Act 2005, section 7E.

1.6 Crimes Act 1900 No 40
[1]   Part 3, Division 10, Subdivision 14, heading and section 80A, heading
      Omit “self-manipulation” wherever occurring.
      Insert instead “self-penetration”.
[2]   Section 80A(1), definition of “self-manipulation”
      Omit the definition.
      Insert in alphabetical order—
                    self-penetration—
                    (a) means the penetration, to any extent, of the genitalia or anus of a person
                           by—
                            (i) a part of the body of the person, or
                           (ii) an object manipulated by the person, but
                    (b) does not include penetration carried out by the person for proper
                           medical or hygienic purposes.
[3]   Section 80A(2)–(3)
      Omit “self-manipulation” wherever occurring.



Page 11
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Acts



      Insert instead “self-penetration”.
[4]   Section 80AB Alternative verdicts
      Insert after section 80AB(11)—
              (12)   If, on the trial of a person for an offence against section 66F(2) or (3), the jury
                     is not satisfied the person is guilty of the offence, but is satisfied the person is
                     guilty of an offence against section 61KC or 61KD(1)—
                      (a) the jury may acquit the person of the offence charged and find the
                             person guilty of an offence against section 61KC or 61KD(1), and
                     (b) the accused is liable to the punishment for the offence against section
                             61KC or 61KD(1).
[5]   Section 80ABA
      Insert after section 80AB—
  80ABA       Alternative verdicts—young person under special care
               (1)   If, on the trial of a person for an offence against section 73(1) or (2), the jury
                     is not satisfied the person is guilty of the offence, but is satisfied the person is
                     guilty of an offence against section 73A(1)—
                      (a) the jury may acquit the person of the offence charged and find the
                            person guilty of an offence against section 73A(1), and
                     (b) the accused is liable to the punishment for the offence against section
                            73A(1).
               (2)   If, on the trial of a person for an offence against section 73(1), the jury is not
                     satisfied the person is guilty of the offence, but is satisfied the person is guilty
                     of an offence against section 73(2)—
                      (a) the jury may acquit the person of the offence charged and find the
                            person guilty of an offence against section 73(2), and
                     (b) the accused is liable to the punishment for the offence against section
                            73(2).
[6]   Schedule 11 Savings, transitional and other provisions
      Insert at the end of the schedule, with appropriate part numbering—

      Part           Provision consequent on enactment of Justice
                     Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Act (No 2)
                     2026
          1   Application of amendments
               (1)   An amendment made to section 80AB by the amending Act applies only in
                     relation to proceedings commenced on or after the commencement of the
                     amendment.
               (2)   Section 80ABA, as inserted by the amending Act, applies only in relation to
                     proceedings commenced on or after the commencement of the section.
               (3)   In this clause—
                     amending Act means the Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Act
                     (No 2) 2026.




Page 12
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Acts



1.7 Crimes (Appeal and Review) Act 2001 No 120—non-release offenders
[1]   Section 3 Definitions
      Insert in alphabetical order in section 3(1)—
                    existing life sentence, for Part 7—see section 74(1).
                    non-release recommendation, for Part 7—see section 74(1).
                    non-release sentence, for Part 7 and Schedule 1—see section 74(1).
[2]   Section 74 Definitions
      Insert in alphabetical order in section 74(1)—
                    existing life sentence has the same meaning as in the Crimes (Sentencing
                    Procedure) Act 1999, Schedule 1.
                    non-release recommendation has the same meaning as in the Crimes
                    (Sentencing Procedure) Act 1999, Schedule 1.
                    non-release sentence means an existing life sentence the subject of a
                    non-release recommendation.
[3]   Section 78 Applications to Supreme Court
      Omit “An application” from section 78(1).
      Insert instead “Subject to subsection (1A), an application”.
[4]   Section 78(1A)
      Insert after section 78(1)—
            (1A)    An application for an inquiry into a non-release sentence cannot be made
                    under this section.
[5]   Section 79 Consideration of applications
      Insert after section 79(2)—
            (2A)    The Supreme Court cannot—
                    (a) consider or otherwise deal with an application referred to in section
                         78(1A), including by taking an action referred to in subsection (1), or
                    (b) on its own motion, take an action referred to in subsection (1) in relation
                         to a non-release sentence.
[6]   Section 82 Action to be taken on completion of inquiry
      Omit “The judicial officer” from section 82(2).
      Insert instead “Subject to subsection (2A), the judicial officer”.
[7]   Section 82(2A)
      Insert after section 82(2)—
            (2A)    The judicial officer cannot refer the matter to the Court of Criminal Appeal to
                    the extent the matter relates to a non-release sentence.
[8]   Section 86 Reference to Court under section 77 (1) (b) or 79 (1) (b) following petition
      to Governor or application to Supreme Court
      Omit “On receiving”.
      Insert instead “Subject to subsection (2), on receiving”.



Page 13
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Acts


 [9]   Section 86(2)
       Insert at the end of section 86—
              (2)   The Court cannot deal with the case to the extent the case—
                    (a) is referred under section 79(1)(b), and
                    (b) relates to a non-release sentence.
[10]   Section 88 Reference to Court under section 82 (2) following inquiry
       Omit “On receiving” from section 88(2).
       Insert instead “Subject to subsection (3), on receiving”.
[11]   Section 88(3)
       Insert after section 88(2)—
              (3)   The Court cannot deal with a matter referred to in subsection (2) to the extent
                    the matter relates to a non-release sentence.
[12]   Schedule 1 Savings, transitional and other provisions
       Insert at the end of the schedule, with appropriate part numbering—

       Part         Provision consequent on enactment of Justice
                    Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Act (No 2)
                    2026, Schedule 1.7
          1   Non-release sentences
              (1)   An amendment made by the Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous)
                    Act (No 2) 2026 extends to—
                    (a) an application under section 78 made, but not determined, before the
                          commencement date, and
                    (b) the referral of a matter relating to a non-release sentence to the Court of
                          Criminal Appeal if the referral relates to an application under section 78
                          made before the commencement date, and
                    (c) the dealing by the Court of Criminal Appeal with a matter referred to
                          the Court under section 79(1)(b) or 82(2)(b) if the referral relates to an
                          application under section 78 made before the commencement date.
              (2)   In this clause—
                    commencement date means the date on which the Justice Legislation
                    Amendment (Miscellaneous) Act (No 2) 2026, Schedule 1.7 commences.

1.8 Crimes (Appeal and Review) Act 2001 No 120—other amendments
 [1]   Section 20 Determination of appeals
       Insert after section 20(1)(b)—
                    (b1) by substituting a verdict of guilty for a lesser offence and varying the
                            sentence accordingly if—
                             (i) the appellant was charged with but not found guilty of the lesser
                                  offence in the proceedings under appeal, and
                            (ii) the lesser offence was before the court in the proceedings under
                                  appeal at the time the appellant was found guilty, or


Page 14
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Acts


[2]   Section 20(1A)
      Insert after section 20(1)—
              (1A)   If the District Court proposes to substitute a verdict under subsection (1)(b1),
                     a party to the proceedings may make submissions in relation to the proposed
                     substitution.
[3]   Section 20(3)
      Insert after section 20(2)—
               (3)   In this section, the power conferred on the District Court to vary a sentence
                     under subsection (2)(b) includes the power—
                      (a) to make an order under—
                             (i) the Mental Health and Cognitive Impairment Forensic
                                   Provisions Act 2020, section 14, or
                            (ii) the Crimes Act 1914 of the Commonwealth, section 19B or
                                   20BQ, and
                     (b) to set aside a conviction made by the original Local Court, with or
                            without setting aside the finding of guilt on which the conviction is
                            based, to enable the order to be made.
[4]   Schedule 1 Savings, transitional and other provisions
      Insert at the end of the schedule, with appropriate part numbering—

      Part           Provisions consequent on enactment of Justice
                     Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Act (No 2)
                     2026, Schedule 1.8
          1    Determination of appeals
                     The insertion of section 20(1)(b1) and (1A) by the Justice Legislation
                     Amendment (Miscellaneous) Act (No 2) 2026 applies only in relation to
                     proceedings commenced in the Local Court after the commencement of the
                     provisions.

1.9 Crimes (Sentencing Procedure) Act 1999 No 92
[1]   Section 11 Deferral of sentencing for rehabilitation, participation in an intervention
      program or other purposes
      Insert after section 11(2)—
          (2AA)      Despite subsection (2), the court may adjourn proceedings to a date not later
                     than 12 months after the date specified under subsection (2) to allow the
                     person to undergo rehabilitation if—
                      (a) one of the following circumstances applies—
                            (i) the person has been placed in a rehabilitation program but has not
                                 yet completed the program,
                           (ii) the person has not yet been placed in a rehabilitation program but
                                 the court is satisfied all reasonable attempts have been made to
                                 place the person in a rehabilitation program, and
                     (b) the court considers it is in the interests of justice to adjourn the
                           proceedings for the additional period.



Page 15
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Acts


[2]   Section 61A
      Insert before section 61—
      61A    Life sentences
             (1)    This section applies to a sentence of imprisonment for life for an offence if
                    proceedings for the offence commenced on or after 12 January 1990.
                    Note— On 12 January 1990, the Crimes (Life Sentences) Amendment Act 1989
                    commenced.
             (2)    The person subject to the sentence must serve the sentence for the term of the
                    person’s natural life.
[3]   Schedule 1 Existing life sentences
      Insert “or another sentence to which this Act, section 61A applies” after “1985” in clause
      1, definition of existing life sentence.

1.10 Criminal Procedure Act 1986 No 209
[1]   Section 166 Certification and transfer of back up and related offences
      Insert after section 166(3)—
             (4)    The prosecutor is not required to produce a certificate under subsection
                    (1)(b)(i) if the charge certificate for the proceedings specifies each back up
                    offence and related offence with which the person has been charged.

1.11 District Court Act 1973 No 9
[1]   Section 18FAB
      Insert after section 18FAA—
  18FAB      Practice notes
             (1)    Subject to the rules, the Chief Judge may publish practice notes relating to the
                    practice and procedure to be followed in the Court.
             (2)    A practice note must be published in the Gazette.
             (3)    The Interpretation Act 1987, sections 40 and 41 apply to a practice note in the
                    same way the sections apply to a statutory rule.
             (4)    In this section—
                    rules means—
                     (a) the civil procedure rules, and
                    (b) the criminal procedure rules.
[2]   Section 161 Civil procedure rules
      Omit section 161(7) and (8).
[3]   Schedule 3 Savings and transitional provisions consequent on amendments to this
      Act
      Insert at the end of the schedule, with appropriate part numbering—




Page 16
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Acts



      Part           Provision consequent on enactment of Justice
                     Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Act (No 2)
                     2026
          1    Application of amendments
                     A practice note published in the Gazette under section 161(7) before the
                     omission of that subsection by the Justice Legislation Amendment
                     (Miscellaneous) Act (No 2) 2026 continues in force as if the practice note was
                     published under section 18FAB after the commencement of that section.

1.12 Drug Court Act 1998 No 150
[1]   Section 5A Definition of “eligible convicted offender”
      Omit “18 months” from section 5A(1)(b)(i).
      Insert instead “12 months”.
[2]   Section 5A(1B)
      Insert after section 5A(1A)—
              (1B)   Subsection (1)(b)(i) does not prevent a person from being an eligible convicted
                     offender if—
                     (a) on determining an appeal, a court reduces the unexpired non-parole
                           period of the person’s sentence of imprisonment to a period of 12
                           months or less, and
                     (b) the person is already the subject of a compulsory drug treatment order
                           as a consequence of a referral made to the Drug Court by the court that
                           imposed the sentence subject to the appeal.
[3]   Section 7A Persons accepted into program in relation to offence
      Insert after section 7A(2)—
              (2A)   When deciding whether to deal with a person under this section, the Drug
                     Court may consider whether the person is able to be appropriately supervised.
[4]   Section 18B Courts to refer eligible convicted offenders to Drug Court
      Omit section 18B(6).
      Insert instead—
               (6)   In this section—
                     appeal includes an application for annulment of sentence to the extent the
                     application relates to a decision referred to in subsection (5).
                     confirm, in relation to a sentence of imprisonment, includes a determination
                     of a court on appeal to confirm a sentence of imprisonment but with a reduced
                     unexpired non-parole period.
[5]   Schedule 2 Savings, transitional and other provisions
      Insert at the end of the schedule, with appropriate part numbering—




Page 17
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Acts



      Part          Provision consequent on enactment of Justice
                    Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Act (No 2)
                    2026
          1   Application of amendments
                    The amendments to the Act, sections 5A and 18B made by the Justice
                    Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Act (No 2) 2026, extend to the
                    following occurrences before the commencement of the schedule—
                     (a) a conviction or imposition of a sentence of imprisonment,
                    (b) a determination of an appeal that reduced the unexpired non-parole
                          period of a sentence of imprisonment.

1.13 Health Records and Information Privacy Act 2002 No 71
[1]   Section 17B
      Insert after section 17A—
      17B     Exemption in relation to BOCSAR
              (1)   An organisation is not required to comply with HPP 10 and 11 in relation to
                    any of the following activities if the purpose of the activity is reasonably
                    necessary for the carrying out of BOCSAR’s functions—
                    (a) the disclosure of health information to BOCSAR,
                    (b) the use of health information to facilitate the disclosure of the health
                          information to BOCSAR,
                           Example— the interrogation, processing and preparation of health information
                           before the health information is disclosed to BOCSAR
                    (c)    the use of health information to facilitate the use of the health
                           information by BOCSAR.
                           Example— another part of the Department of Communities and Justice giving
                           health information to BOCSAR
              (2)   BOCSAR is not required to comply with HPP 3, 4(2), 6–8, 10 and 11 in
                    relation to any of the following activities if the purpose of the activity is
                    reasonably necessary for the carrying out of BOCSAR’s functions—
                     (a) the collection or use of health information,
                    (b) the disclosure of health information to another public sector agency.
              (3)   For this section, BOCSAR’s functions include the following—
                    (a) producing independent crime statistics, including by using data
                           de-identification and data linkage,
                    (b) developing and maintaining crime statistics databases,
                    (c) undertaking research and providing analytical advice on crime and the
                           criminal justice system, including by using data de-identification and
                           data linkage,
                    (d) monitoring and forecasting trends in crime statistics,
                    (e) conducting research and evaluations relating to crime and the criminal
                           justice system,
                     (f) publicly reporting crime statistics to inform public understanding,
                           transparency and policy debate.
              (4)   In this section—


Page 18
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Acts



                     BOCSAR means the group of persons referred to as the Bureau of Crime
                     Statistics and Research employed in the Department of Communities and
                     Justice.
                     crime statistics means statistics about crime and the criminal justice system,
                     including statistics about—
                      (a) community safety, and
                     (b) the risk and susceptibility that persons will become victims or
                            perpetrators of crime.

1.14 Judicial Officers Act 1986 No 100
[1]   Section 3 Definitions
      Insert in alphabetical order in section 3(1)—
                    industrial matters, for Part 3—see section 4A.
[2]   Section 4A
      Insert before section 5—
       4A    Definition
                     In this part—
                     industrial matters has the same meaning as in the Industrial Relations Act
                     1996.
[3]   Section 6 Staff etc of the Commission
      Omit section 6(1).
      Insert instead—
             (1)     The Commission may appoint a Chief Executive and other staff of the
                     Commission to enable the Commission to exercise the Commission’s
                     functions.
            (1A)     The Chief Executive and the staff of the Commission are taken to be employed
                     by the Government in the service of the Crown, except as provided by
                     subsection (1C).
            (1B)     A person appointed as a member of staff of the Commission under this
                     section—
                     (a) continues, subject to this section and the terms of the person’s
                            appointment, to be employed as a member of staff at the discretion of
                            the Commission, and
                     (b) is, in the person’s capacity as a member of staff, subject to the control
                            and direction of the Commission.
            (1C)     For proceedings relating to staff employed under this section held before a
                     competent tribunal which has jurisdiction to deal with industrial matters, the
                     Commission is taken to be the employer of the staff.
[4]   Section 6(5)
      Omit “employed”.
      Insert instead “appointed”.




Page 19
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Acts


[5]   Section 6, note
      Insert at the end of the section—
                    Note— The Government Sector Employment Act 2013, section 5 excludes the
                    application of that Act to the staff of the Commission.

[6]   Section 6A
      Insert after section 6—
       6A     Commission may enter into agreements
              (1)   The Commission may enter into an agreement with an association or
                    organisation representing a group or class of staff of the Commission for
                    industrial matters.
              (2)   An agreement binds all persons in the group or class affected by the
                    agreement, and no person, whether or not a member of the association or
                    organisation with which the agreement was entered into, has a right of appeal
                    against the terms of the agreement.
              (3)   An agreement under this section is not an enterprise agreement within the
                    meaning of the Industrial Relations Act 1996.
              (4)   Despite subsection (3), the Commission may, as the employer of the staff of
                    the Commission, enter into an enterprise agreement under the Industrial
                    Relations Act 1996.
[7]   Schedule 5 Provisions relating to the rights of certain staff of the Commission
      Omit “section 6 (1)” from clause 1, definition of member of staff.
      Insert instead “section 6”.
[8]   Schedule 5, clause 3(a)
      Omit “being a member of staff, ceases to be employed by”.
      Insert instead “ceases to be a member of staff of”.
[9]   Schedule 6 Savings and transitional provisions
      Insert at the end of the schedule, with appropriate part numbering—

      Part          Provisions consequent on enactment of Justice
                    Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Act (No 2)
                    2026
          1   Definitions
                    In this part—
                    amendment Act means the Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous)
                    Act (No 2) 2026.
                    commencement date means the date on which the amendment Act, Schedule
                    1.14 commenced.
          2   Existing staff of Commission
              (1)   A person who, immediately before the commencement date, was employed by
                    the Commission under section 6 is on the commencement date taken to—
                     (a) be appointed, in accordance with section 6 as substituted by the
                          amendment Act, as a member of staff of the Commission, and


Page 20
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Acts



                    (b)    hold the same staff position the person held immediately before the
                           commencement date.
             (2)    A person who, under subclause (1), is taken to be appointed and employed as
                    a member of staff of the Commission—
                    (a) retains all rights to leave, including annual leave, extended leave and
                          sick leave, accrued to the person as an employee of the Commission
                          before the commencement date, and
                    (b) continues to be employed in accordance with a State industrial
                          instrument or determination that applied to the person as an employee
                          of the Commission, unless or until otherwise provided for under this Act
                          or another Act or law.

1.15 Legal Profession Uniform Law Application Act 2014 No 16
[1]   Section 21C
      Insert after section 21B—
      21C    Supreme Court roll
                    The NSW Admission Board may, at the request of the Supreme Court, assist
                    the Court in exercising the Court’s functions under the Legal Profession
                    Uniform Law (NSW), section 22(1).
[2]   Section 35A
      Insert after section 35—
      35A    Investigation of unqualified legal practice
             (1)    The Bar Council or Law Society Council may appoint a suitably qualified
                    person to investigate a person who the Bar Council or Law Society Council
                    reasonably suspects has contravened the Legal Profession Uniform Law
                    (NSW), section 10 or 11.
             (2)    The Legal Profession Uniform Law (NSW), Chapter 7 and Part 9.9, other than
                    section 466(3), apply to an investigation under this section.
             (3)    For subsection (2), a reference in the Legal Profession Uniform Law (NSW)—
                    (a) to a trust records investigation is taken to include a reference to an
                          investigation under this section, and
                    (b) to the following persons is taken to include a reference to a person
                          appointed under subsection (1)—
                           (i) an investigator in Chapter 7,
                          (ii) a relevant person in sections 462, 465 and 467.
[3]   Section 148 Definitions
      Omit the definition of disciplinary action, paragraphs (d) and (e).
      Insert instead—
                    (d)    the making of an order by a court or tribunal, or by another person or
                           body, for or following a finding of unsatisfactory professional conduct
                           or professional misconduct by the lawyer, other than the following
                           orders—
                            (i) an order cautioning the lawyer,
                           (ii) an order requiring an apology from the lawyer if—


Page 21
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Acts



                                  (A)  no other orders were made in relation to the same
                                       disciplinary matter, or
                                 (B) the only other order made in relation to the same
                                       disciplinary matter was an order cautioning the lawyer,
                    (e)    the reprimanding of the lawyer by a person or body without a formal
                           finding of unsatisfactory professional conduct or professional
                           misconduct,
[4]   Section 152 Register of Disciplinary Action
      Insert after section 152(7)—
            (7A)    The NSW Commissioner may, if the Commissioner considers it appropriate,
                    remove from the register a disciplinary action taken against a lawyer if the
                    lawyer has died.

1.16 Local Court Act 2007 No 93
[1]   Schedule 1 Provisions relating to Judges
      Omit “clause 10A” from clause 6.
      Insert instead “clauses 10A and 11(5)”.
[2]   Schedule 1, clause 11(5)
      Insert after clause 11(4)—
             (5)    A Deputy Chief Judge who is the holder of another judicial office of the State
                    is entitled to be paid the higher of the following—
                     (a) remuneration as Deputy Chief Judge in accordance with the Statutory
                            and Other Offices Remuneration Act 1975,
                    (b) remuneration as the holder of the other judicial office.

1.17 Mental Health and Cognitive Impairment Forensic Provisions Act 2020
     No 12
[1]   Section 3 Definitions
      Insert in alphabetical order in section 3(1)—
                    correctional officer has the same meaning as in the Crimes (Administration of
                    Sentences) Act 1999.
                    juvenile justice officer has the same meaning as in the Children (Detention
                    Centres) Act 1987.
[2]   Section 7 Interpretation
      Omit section 7(1), definition of juvenile justice officer.
[3]   Section 22 Orders may relate to transfer of defendants by certain persons
      Omit section 22(4).
[4]   Section 115 Transfer and transport of patients
      Omit section 115(6) and (7).
[5]   Section 115A
      Insert after section 115—


Page 22
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Acts


      115A   Functions of persons transferring and transporting patients
             (1)    A transferee patient may be taken to or from a mental health facility,
                    correctional centre, detention centre or other place under section 115 by one
                    or more of the following persons—
                    (a) a correctional officer,
                    (b) a juvenile justice officer,
                    (c) a person referred to in the Mental Health Act 2007, section 81(1),
                    (d) another person prescribed by the regulations.
             (2)    A correctional officer taking a transferee patient to or from a place may, in
                    relation to the transferee patient, exercise the functions the correctional officer
                    has under the Crimes (Administration of Sentences) Act 1999 and the
                    regulations made under that Act in relation to an inmate.
             (3)    A juvenile justice officer taking a transferee patient to or from a place may, in
                    relation to the transferee patient, exercise the functions the juvenile justice
                    officer has under the Children (Detention Centres) Act 1987 and the
                    regulations made under that Act in relation to a detainee.
             (4)    If a transferee patient is being taken to or from a place by a person referred to
                    in subsection (1)(c) or (d)—
                     (a) the person may, in relation to the transferee patient, exercise the
                            functions referred to in the Mental Health Act 2007, section 81 in the
                            same way the functions may be exercised in relation to a person being
                            transported under that section, and
                    (b) the Mental Health Act 2007, section 81(3) applies in relation to the
                            transferee patient in the same way it applies to a person being
                            transported under that section.
             (5)    In this section—
                    transferee patient means—
                     (a) a forensic patient, or
                    (b) a correctional patient, or
                     (c) a person subject to a transfer order under section 86.
[6]    Section 156 Victims Register
       Omit “victim.” from section 156(3)(b).
       Insert instead—
                           victim, or
                    (c)    the forensic patient was transferred to the State under the Mental Health
                           Act 2007, Chapter 8, Part 2, Division 2.
[7]    Section 156A Scheme Executive to notify victims of forensic patients or notifiable
       family members about Victims Register
       Omit “Commissioner” wherever occurring.
       Insert instead “Scheme Executive”.

1.18 NSW Trustee and Guardian Act 2009 No 49
[1]    Section 128 Regulations
       Omit “payable.” from section 128(2)(d).


Page 23
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Acts



      Insert instead—
                           payable,
                    (e)    notification requirements relating to orders and interim orders of the
                           MHRT under Part 4.3, Division 1,
                     (f)   requirements for mental health facilities to notify the NSW Trustee of
                           the movements of a managed person.

1.19 Powers of Attorney Act 2003 No 53
[1]   Schedule 5 Savings, transitional and other provisions
      Insert at the end of the schedule, with appropriate part numbering—

      Part          Miscellaneous
          1   Enduring power of attorney executed between 13 September 2013 and 20
              February 2014
              (1)   This clause applies to an instrument executed as an enduring power of attorney
                    between—
                    (a) 13 September 2013, and
                    (b) 20 February 2014.
              (2)   An instrument to which this clause applies is not invalid only because the
                    witness certificate for the instrument does not include the statement required
                    by section 19(1)(c)(iv).
              (3)   In this clause—
                    witness certificate means the certificate that, under section 19(1)(c), is
                    required to be endorsed on or annexed to an instrument creating an enduring
                    power of attorney.

1.20 Privacy and Personal Information Protection Act 1998 No 133
[1]   Section 3 Definitions
      Insert in alphabetical order in section 3(1)—
                    Centre for Health Record Linkage means the group of persons referred to as
                    the Centre for Health Record Linkage employed in the NSW Health Service.
[2]   Section 17 Limits on use of personal information
      Omit “person.” from section 17(c).
      Insert instead—
                           person, or
                    (d)    the use of the information for the other purpose is to enable information
                           to be shared with and used by the Centre for Health Record Linkage.
[3]   Section 18 Limits on disclosure of personal information
      Omit “person.” from section 18(1)(c).
      Insert instead—
                           person, or
                    (d)    the disclosure of the information is—



Page 24
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Acts



                            (i)   for a purpose other than the purpose for which the information
                                  was collected, and
                           (ii)   to enable information to be shared with and used by the Centre
                                  for Health Record Linkage.
[4]   Section 27E
      Insert after section 27D—
      27E    Exemption relating to BOCSAR
             (1)    A public sector agency is not required to comply with the information
                    protection principles under sections 17–19 in relation to any of the following
                    activities if the purpose of the activity is reasonably necessary for the carrying
                    out of BOCSAR’s functions—
                    (a) the disclosure of personal information to BOCSAR,
                    (b) the use of personal information to facilitate the disclosure of the
                           personal information to BOCSAR,
                           Example— the interrogation, processing and preparation of personal
                           information before the personal information is disclosed to BOCSAR
                    (c)    the use of personal information to facilitate the use of the personal
                           information by BOCSAR.
                           Example— another part of the Department of Communities and Justice giving
                           personal information to BOCSAR
             (2)    BOCSAR is not required to comply with the information protection principles
                    under sections 9, 13–15 and 17–19 in relation to any of the following activities
                    if the purpose of the activity is reasonably necessary for the carrying out of
                    BOCSAR’s functions—
                     (a) the collection or use of personal information,
                    (b) the disclosure of personal information to another public sector agency.
             (3)    For this section, BOCSAR’s functions include the following—
                    (a) producing independent crime statistics, including by using data
                           de-identification and data linkage,
                    (b) developing and maintaining crime statistics databases,
                    (c) undertaking research and providing analytical advice on crime and the
                           criminal justice system, including by using data de-identification and
                           data linkage,
                    (d) monitoring and forecasting trends in crime statistics,
                    (e) conducting research and evaluations relating to crime and the criminal
                           justice system,
                     (f) publicly reporting crime statistics to inform public understanding,
                           transparency and policy debate.
             (4)    In this section—
                    BOCSAR means the group of persons referred to as the Bureau of Crime
                    Statistics and Research employed in the Department of Communities and
                    Justice.
                    crime statistics means statistics about crime and the criminal justice system,
                    including statistics about—
                     (a) community safety, and




Page 25
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Acts



                    (b)    the risk and susceptibility that persons will become victims or
                           perpetrators of crime.

1.21 Public Notaries Act 1997 No 98
[1]   Section 7 Roll of public notaries
      Insert after section 7(5)—
            (5A)    A public notary must annually notify the Admission Board, in accordance with
                    the rules, of—
                     (a) the particulars required under subsection (2) to be entered in the roll in
                           relation to the public notary, and
                    (b) other information prescribed by the rules.
[2]   Section 9 Rules for public notaries
      Omit section 9(f).
      Insert instead—
                    (f)     the annual notification by public notaries of—
                             (i) the particulars required to be entered in the roll, and
                            (ii) other information relating to the Board’s functions,
                    (fa)    the fees payable to the Board in relation to the following—
                             (i) the examination of candidates for appointment as public notaries,
                            (ii) the appointment of public notaries,
                           (iii) the certificates of appointment of public notaries,
                           (iv) the annual notification by public notaries under section 7(5A),

1.22 Sheriff Act 2005 No 6
[1]   Section 7E
      Insert after section 7D—
       7E    Use of body-worn recording devices by Sheriff and sheriff’s officers
             (1)    A sheriff’s officer is authorised to use a relevant device if—
                    (a) the officer uses the device in the exercise of the officer’s functions
                          under this Act or another Act or law, and
                    (b) the device is prominently attached to the officer’s body or clothing, and
                    (c) at least one of the following circumstances applies—
                           (i) before using the device, the officer made a reasonable attempt to
                                 ensure the person likely to be recorded by the device was aware
                                 the device was capable of recording images or sound, or both,
                          (ii) in the officer’s opinion, there is a significant risk of harm to the
                                 officer or another person,
                         (iii) the recording of images or sound, or both, by the device is
                                 inadvertent or unexpected.
             (2)    A sheriff’s officer may only use a relevant device in court premises under this
                    section in accordance with a written agreement between the head of the court,
                    however described, and the Sheriff.




Page 26
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Acts



             (3)    A sheriff’s officer does not commit an offence against the Surveillance
                    Devices Act 2007, section 7 or 8 for use of a relevant device in accordance with
                    this section.
             (4)    In this section—
                    relevant device has the same meaning as in the Surveillance Devices Act 2007,
                    section 8A.
                    sheriff’s officer includes the Sheriff.

1.23 Terrorism (Police Powers) Act 2002 No 115
[1]   Section 26ZS Sunset provision
      Omit “2026” wherever occurring in section 26ZS(1) and (2).
      Insert instead “2029”.

1.24 Victims Support Act 2013 No 37
[1]   Section 19 Meaning of “act of violence”
      Omit “self-manipulation” from section 19(8), definition of sexual assault and domestic
      violence, paragraph (c).
      Insert instead “self-penetration”.

1.25 Young Offenders Act 1997 No 54
[1]   Section 45 Preparation for conferences
      Omit “, the person or court that” from section 45(2)(a).
      Insert instead “or person who”.
[2]   Section 54
      Omit the section.
      Insert instead—
       54    Matters referred by courts
             (1)    A conference convenor must, if requested by a court, give to the court an
                    outcome plan relating to a matter referred for a conference by the court.
             (2)    The court may—
                    (a) approve the plan, or
                    (b) not approve the plan.
             (3)    If the court does not approve the plan, the court—
                     (a) must notify the conference convenor, and
                    (b) may continue the proceedings.
[3]   Section 56 Satisfactory completion of outcome plans
      Insert after section 56(2)—
             (3)    For a matter referred for a conference by a court, the conference administrator
                    must give the court the outcome plan when giving written notice under this
                    section.



Page 27
Justice Legislation Amendment (Miscellaneous) Bill (No 2) 2026 [NSW]
Schedule 1 Amendment of Acts



             (4)    Subsection (3) does not apply if the conference convenor for the matter has
                    given the court the outcome plan under section 54(1).




Page 28
